Dear Ingrid

The story of the Christmas Pudding.

For several years we have spent Christmas with our English friends, Francis and 
Ian Monroe,and their two children.  It has always been a lovely day and one of 
the highlights is the English Christmas pudding they always bring.

Christmas goes rather like this:  Arrival of guests, Christmas dinner, 
conversation, a walk in the park to decorate a tree for the birds, the breaking 
of the pinata (also outside) then indoors again for flaming Christmas pudding 
and Christmas baking, games, stories and music.  Each year dinner is about 1:00 
p.m. and Christmas pudding, which takes the place of supper, is about 5:00 p.m.

This year the Monroes moved to Penticton.  Consternation.  We will miss them 
terribly, as they are the perfect Christmas guests, AND they bring Christmas 
pudding.

For a few weeks Graham and I huddle around books and read about Christmas 
pudding.  There are lots of variations. I keep looking at Graham to see if 
there are any hereditary echoes that sound for him.  I'm German/Russian - 
there's no tradition of Christmas Pudding in my past, but Graham is part Irish, 
surely one of the recipes will look better than another.  No.  We write to the 
Monroe's in desperation.

There are so many factors - rum or brandy, cherries or not, serve immediately, 
let sit for several weeks.  Questions, questions.

After a wait, I privately decide that if we don't hear from the Monroes, I will 
make the pudding in the Joy of Cooking, it's a good solid book, bound to turn 
out right.  Graham privately decides we will use the "Cooking from around the 
world - the British Isles"  Both of us make shopping lists.

The week before I would have made the pudding, Graham finds a recipe on the 
Internet.  He immediately decides on this one as it has stout in it, and Graham 
sees this as an excuse to buy stout for himself as well as the cake.  He 
arrives home with the ingredients and informs us we will all be making 
Christmas pudding that evening.

The recipe from the internet has a few problems.  Things are asked for in 
grams, ounces, pounds, and fluid ounces.   Out come the equivalent tables.   
But currants weigh more than flour.  If 8 ounces of currants is half a cup, is 
8 ounces of flour half a cup?  WE DON'T HAVE A SCALE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
Graham is also not the most patient cook, and is throwing things in really 
fast, before I have time to see if the equivalents I think are right, really 
are right.  At this moment I think we added twice the sugar we should have, and 
half the flour.

Alex has picked up the idea that you stir the pudding and make a wish.  He's on 
the counter stirring rapidly and going through his entire Christmas list.   Of 
course suet, flour (what there is of it), sugar, etc is all over the floor.  
Once we add the bottle of stout we realize that in England stout arrives in 
bottles which are 10 fl.  The one we added was 12 fl. oz.

But we have no charms.  Well, a thimble is easily found, but can you bake it 
into something and be sure that it won't rust?  Okay, what's a good sign for a 
bachelor?  Finally we decide that money is good enough, and that the more money 
you get the more we will assume you will be a bachelor.  . After all, no 
children, lots more disposable income.

Graham is just transferring this very liquid mixture into a bowl to be steamed 
when I chance to re-read the recipe and find that it has to sit for the night.  
Luckily by the next day, it is a bit more solid, but we add breadcrumbs just in 
case, we have to compensate for the extra stout.  

Two bowls are steamed for 8 hours.  The kitchen smells lovely.  If nothing 
else, we have beautifully alcoholic sugar and currants in those bowls.  

Before they cool, Graham decides he needs one of the bowls so tries to tip out 
the pudding which promptly falls apart into many pieces.  Graham stuffs it back 
into the bowl and pats it down in the mistaken belief that it will re-form 
itself.

As they cool the puddings become rock hard.  Is this a good sign?  With hope 
Graham and I cover them and put them in the fridge.  Neither of us has the 
courage to do any more with them.  We both privately decide that we'll buy 
something to feed guests in case this is a disaster.

Luckily, yesterday we had a message via e-mail that the Monroes have taken pity 
on us and are sending up a pudding.  Christmas is saved.  I plan to throw out 
the broken pudding and inflict the second on my book club next time I am asked 
to bring dessert.

Write to you again soon.

Love

K


