Recently I received one of those “know yourself” quizzes from a friend.  
One of the questions was

Q:   “Where on earth do you most like to be?”  

I didn’t have to think about this one -  

A:  “backstage, just before a show begins”

As I am presently the manager of the REM Lee Theatre in Terrace, I get this 
experience a lot – and it is always amazing.  There you are, audience in 
place, waiting to give the cue to start the show.  No matter if the show is a 
bunch of local primary children who are scared to step out on the stage, or a 
professional dance company which is used to dancing in the biggest and best 
venues in the country – the thrill is always there.

Part of the excitement is not knowing what is going to happen each day.  
Sometimes a truck pulls in at the theatre at 6:30 in the morning, and we spend 
all day, building their set, focusing their lights, and setting their sound 
levels, until the magic hour of “show time”.  It is only then that we watch 
our work take shape.  And when we finally finding re-loading the truck at 2:00 
a.m. the next morning, we feel that we know these people intimately .. from 
those jam packed and intense  hours you’ve spent with them. 

Sometimes a local group books the theatre for days, and we watch them adjust 
their dance or movement to the confines of our stage, and suggest to them ways 
to use our equipment to highlight the very best in their productions.  No 
matter what the show – you are never really ready, and you know that, because 
it is a live performance, anything can and will happen.

In the years I’ve been at the Lee my crews and I have:  
built one half of a “hockey rink” which included bleachers, back boards and 
part of the ice, 
put together a moving “marble” set  – which consisted of over 700 lbs of 
set pieces – all of it which had to be placed on rollers and move 
effortlessly around the stage, 
run hundred of miles of cable to microphones and monitors for pianos, voices, 
brass instruments and drum kits, 
ripped up tablecloths to mark dimmers – so we could re-patch lights in the 
dark during a show, 
“flew” material, ropes, windows, doors and even plastic spider webs – so 
scenes could change in seconds, 
climbed ladders, 
changed gels, 
re-hung lights, 
patched and re-patched the sound board, 
and striven to ensure that audiences get the very best show possible.

There have also been emergencies.  We’ve had to:
change lighting instruments during a performance when a bulb blew up
turn circuits on and off because we suspected we were scorching a curtain
put out a small fire backstage while performers continued on stage
swap out a CD player when our own died during a show
stuff the nostrils of an actor of with cotton because he developed a nose bleed 
just before he was about to go on
fix costumes – while still on the dancers, with gaff tape and hot glue

 and deal with any number of crises.   

Whatever the show, and whatever the complexity, there are some constants.  We 
are always amazed at the dedication and talent presented to us.  And we want to 
highlight and support that in every way we can.

Some days are hard.  Disgruntled audience members, performers having a bad day, 
equipment that just doesn’t work.  

But that’s okay.  Because the art of performance: of an artist on stage, 
working WITH the audience in the house and supported by the technicians in the 
booth and backstage, becomes, every night, a kind of magic.  Suddenly the 
individual person in the audience with their cares and personal life, is taken 
on a journey.  And this only happens if she is willing to be guided and enters 
into the magic life - the sweet spot - WITH the performer. 

We are the lucky few.  We who are able to signal the beginning of a 
performance, and then watch and run the show from behind the scenes.  


