Some years ago, I was in a Terrace Little Theatre play.  Between two scenes 
I was in the wings, waiting to go on, while I watched a scene change happen 
from the backstage point to view.

The final line was given on stage, the lights went to brown, the actor came 
offstage.  She was wet, as each night another actor had to throw water in her 
face just before the end of the scene.  I watched as the people “on deck” 
converged.  As she stood still, two of them unbuttoned and removed her wet 
shirt and replaced it with a new costume.  Another mopped the excess water off 
her face and hair.  Yet another arrived with a huge cake.  The moment her 
costume was on, she put out her hands and the cake was placed in them.  She 
turned and stood ready as the deck hand “on heads” indicated to the Stage 
Manager in the booth that everything was ready.  The lights changed and she 
walked back on to the stage.  This was my signal to step up as well.  As I put 
out my hands, a tray with teapot and cups was placed in them, and I made my way 
back on to the stage.  The play continued.

I often think of that scene change that happened with military swiftness and 
with a minimum of fuss.  At that time I thought to myself “If I had to 
choose, for the rest of my life, to watch a play only from backstage or only 
from the audience, what would I choose?”

Because I LOVE to watch a play; to enter into that sweet spot which happens 
when an audience and the performers are working together to make something 
magic happen.  Theatre is a tribal experience. It doesn’t happen for an 
audience, it happens with an audience.  Unlike television or film, unless an 
audience is willing to engage with the performers, theatre can’t happen.  I 
like to be taken for a ride .. as an audience member, to be willingly lead and 
to experience the pain and the pleasures of the characters before.  To enter 
into their dilemmas and to intensely hope that their lives will come out well.  

But, I think I love to watch from backstage even more.  


