Every year the Pacific Northwest Music Festival happens in Terrace.  
Hundreds of people perform over 20+ days in a variety of categories.  At the 
end of the festival - the committee puts on a final show  - the GALA,  
selecting people from each category to perform on the night. Competition to be 
seen at Gala is high, and the show is always long - with tons of performers 
squeezed in backstage. There are space problems, and the logistics of getting 
bands, pianos, props, etc. on and off the stage in a timely and organized 
fashion is always paramount.   Here is a story written about one such evening, 
from behind the scenes.



Gala Night.  Just before the show.

Of course, my technicians and I have been here at the theatre for a long time 
already.  

It started at 8:00 a.m. when we were assisting with the get in and lobby 
decorating, and it carried on through the long rehearsal period, with 
performers coming and going all day to have their lighting levels set and their 
needs noted. That’s okay, as our job is to make the performers look and sound 
as good as possible.

The piano has been moved back and forth like a yo-yo, dressing rooms have been 
assigned and sound and lighting consoles have been programmed.  We’ve had to 
contend with irate parents, confused youngsters, lost pieces of clothing, and 
nervous performers.  

Drum kits, risers, props and instruments are all backstage.  All the 
technicians sport precious pieces of paper with diverse and detailed 
instructions, many of which are difficult to understand.   There are over 100 
people on stage, behind the blue curtains, waiting to receive their awards.  
Dancers are stretching in the hallways, brass players are warming up in the 
mechanical room, my office is stuffed with instrument cases, and the lobby is 
packed with people trying to get last minute tickets.

6:50, 10 minutes before curtain - a full house of 700 - most of whom are 
already seated.

A Dance Mom finds me to tell me of a “slight problem”. Her daughter is to 
dance tonight, and they forgot the CD at home - too far away to retrieve before 
the show. BUT they have the music on an IPod. She hands the IPod to me.

In the booth are my sound gal, Emily, two guys from the TV station who are 
going to record the show (along with a ton of their equipment strewn 
everywhere) John, the announcer for the evening and two backstage runners, 
ready to help patrons.  It's crowded.

Emily and I think we can make it work with the right adapter; we tear the booth 
apart, looking for a cable that will allow us to hook an IPOD into our console. 
 We have to constantly climb around the two TV guys who aren't used to live 
theatre and don't seem to understand space constrictions.

A photographer - Bobby - whose photos are displayed on our lobby walls strolls 
into the booth with a question about his display.

Despite my “this isn’t a good time, Bobby” he continues to talk - with 
long preamble

(Karla and Emily - “let’s see - we don’t have a direct adapter”)

The Dance Mother, sensing there might be a problem starts to hover in the 
background making “oh dear, oh dear” noises.

Bobby continues with a long story of how he left he doesn’t like price lists 
so he made up special cards for his photos, with discrete prices on the backs.

(Karla and Emily - “maybe we can do a male stereo to female ¼ to male ¼ to 
male XLR”)

Dance Mother moaning softly, starts to wring her hands and stands precisely in 
the way of cable and adapter boxes.

Front of House person arrives in the booth to announce we’re ready to go.

Karla declares a 5-minute hold.

And he (Bobby) thought cards looked good but he had purchased special 
cardholders

(Karla and Emily rush over to the sound console to plug everything in)

Dance Mother “helpfully” tries to push random buttons on the console - to 
be swiftly batted aside by Karla

Front of House person suggests we go now.

Karla answers tersely that they can’t start until the lights dim, and she's 
not at the light console to do that right now.

But he (Bobby) can’t seem to find ANY of the card holders and ...

(Karla and Emily mute the channel and see if there is any signal going through 
the system)

Dance Mom makes helpful suggestions, like, maybe we could go to Wal-Mart or 
Canadian Tire and pickup the right cable.  She seriously seems to think we 
might hold the show to ensure that her daughter can dance

So Bobby’s just wondering if I can do something about that

(Karla and Emily are getting intermittent signal - Emily checks the cable 
connections - Karla starts pawing through the TV guys’ stuff to find a better 
adapter - if it's in my booth, it's mine)

Bobby notices that no one has listened to him and starts his story again.

Front of House person suggests SHE could dim the lights - she knows how

Karla tells her to chill (as nicely as possible)

TV guys find a better cable adapter

Bobby is now explaining his problem to Dance Mom and TV guys

Emily and Karla swap out the adapter to get a true signal

Front of House person tells us that it’s going to be a long evening if we 
don’t start on time

Dance Mom starts to explain to us WHY she left the CD at home until Karla cuts 
her off and asks her to give Emily directions on using an IPOD.

She isn’t sure; she’s never used one.

Bobby observes that the missing cardholders were really special

Completely exasperated Karla lies, and tells Bobby she put the cardholders away 
because kids were playing with them (she actually has no idea where they are)

Thank God for teens - in 5 seconds Emily has figured the IPOD out, and runs 5 
more seconds of music through the system to make sure that the signal was 
really music.

Karla tells Front of House person we’re ready and heads to her console.

Bobby says “well, I can see you’re busy here - maybe this isn’t a good 
time to talk,…. so you really have my holders eh?”

John, the announcer who has been meekly standing around in the booth ready for 
his cue, tries to give Karla a hug as she slides into her chair at the lighting 
console.

Without thinking about it, she pushes him away, managing to hit his nose with 
the headset that she's putting on to get the show going.

Bobby asks to clarify, just one more thing about the holder….

Karla's trying to simultaneously say

“Have I got wings left and right on headset?”
“I’m SO sorry John”
“Beginners please - let me know when they're ready”
"Stand by house to half then out, curtain, LX1, and MC - on my 'go' please - 
count of 5 for everyone"
"House to half on 5 please, Go"
“This ISN’T a good time, Bobby”
"MC mic on now please"
"John, I'll signal you with a hand go - about 5 after LX" 
“Break a leg, everyone”
“Get that damn TV cable off my console”
and "House to out, LX1, and Curtain please, GO"

Show started at 7:04 - which isn't bad.

I remember the whole thing as a surrealist, black and white movie.  But each 
year we get more colour and more excitement.  I wonder what will happen next 
year.

