In my 50 odd years on this planet, I’ve discovered a few universal truths:
It always pays to buy good rain gear
February is the longest month
And
People will find ways to feed their passion, no matter where they live

Twenty years ago in Terrace BC, a small group of people, with nothing in common 
except a love of old music, got together once a week to sing madrigals. Their 
first performance was at the Pacific Northwest Music Festival.  They sang about 
a chicken laying an egg 

Since that time they have continued, performing locally, being a showcase choir 
for Music Fest Canada, even attending an international Choral Festival as one 
of 11 choirs representing Canada.  Throughout their 26 years, the Northwest 
Singers have had a commitment to bring their joy of music to the community.  To 
the singers, music is a gift which can savored best when shared.  It’s a 
special feeling.

Some years ago I began singing with the choir.  Now I’ve sung with many 
choirs and each has it’s own flavour and traditions.  At first I thought the 
Northwest Singers were rather stuffy.

Our director, Marilyn, is a stickler for detail.  She will stop the choir if an 
R isn’t flipped or if the a comma isn’t observed.  It used to drive me 
crazy.  

But Mailyn’s insistence on detail stems from her deep love and respect for 
the music we perform.  She works hard to ensure that the choir value every 
aspect of a work and perform it as closely as possible to the way the composer 
envisioned it.

Marilyn’s knowledge of and passion for music has influenced every member of 
the group.  No matter how complex the music, or how many times we fail to get 
things right, rehearsal evenings are filled with a deep joy.  Members savour 
the music and relish the work of making 16 voices become one vibrant entity.  
Those details that used to drive me crazy are now the aspects that delight me.  
They create texture, and excitement, rythmn and style.  After five years with 
the choir I’m still working hard, learning, and valuing a remarkable 
experience.  That goes for others as well.

It may seem odd that the Northwest Singers exist in this rural town, which has 
relied on forestry for it’s survival.  But people who love to sing, who must 
sing, will find each other.   They will meet and rehearse and perform.   They  
will continue to study and improve because music is essential to their lives 
and they will offer their music to their  community with love.  Far away from 
the province’s cultural centre, the Northwest Singers are continuing to feed 
their passion for music.  

