Dear Griff:

I think I have sent you photos of the inside of my house.  You may or may not 
have noticed in the dining room, a framed poster which says “Master Paintings 
from the Hermitage - San Francisco 1976”.  I keep it as a reminder that 
things that seem to be too good to be true, usually are.

So I have to give you the context.

Robert and I have been friends since we first met in our Grade 9 English class. 
 Within weeks of meeting we were “firm” or “best” friends and we have 
remained so ever since.  (I have a lot of “best” friends … I’m that 
kind of gal.)

We graduated together and went to university together, until R figured out that 
there would always be good paying jobs for a bright, gay young man, who was 
good at networking and into the arts community.  He left university and has 
never been hindered by the lack of a degree yet.  (In fact a few Christamases 
ago, I wrote to him and told him that our only Christmas excursion would be to 
Rosswood - 20 minutes north of here; a community with no power or phones.  We 
planned to drive to Rosswood, chop down a Christmas tree, strap it on the top 
of the car and come home to Tim Hortons’ coffee and maybe chili.  R wrote 
that he and his friend were planning on spending Christmas is “sleepy, snowy 
Rotterdam” and then flying to Brussels for New Years and the Opera - with a 
stop on the way home to London to see some of the new plays.  sigh).

But back to the distant past:  R and I also traveled together, going to Ontario 
for one friend’s wedding, and spending a month touring around, doing short 
trips together into Washington and Oregon, and having a great two weeks on 
Vancouver island where we pretended to be a straight couple and stayed at all 
the tiny hovels we could find in the most remote of villages.

So, in 1976, I was a starving student, living in a communal house with a bunch 
of Trotskyests and paying my way by waitressing (and the occasional paying 
acting or tech gig), and R owned a condo in Vancouver’s west end.  At that 
time he was working in the publishing world which was very homophobic so I was 
his foil .. the date he brought to all those social occasions that go with the 
job.  I loved it …. good food, a chance to dress up and to dance all night, 
for free!  He had been suggesting for a while that we head to San Francisco, 
specifically for the Hermitage show, but I just couldn’t see how I could 
swing it, even if I could convince him to camp all the way there and back (R 
doesn’t believe in camping, he believes in comfort).

Anyway.  From time to time, probably because he couldn’t stand my constant 
broken hearts AND my constant penury, he would entice me over so he could give 
me one of our Weekends.  These were a big deal, as you make the best tips on 
the weekends, but they were worth the sacrifice.

Our Weekends would start with me arriving at R’s condo, getting dressed in my 
very best, and the two of us going out for a nice dinner.  After dinner we went 
to the theatre or to a concert in one of Vancouver’s best halls.  After the 
concert we went to a night club and danced until about 1:00 in the morning, 
when we would go to a lounge and have coffees and brandy and rest up for the 
remainder of the night.

After our rest, we would head to one of the many illegal nightclubs that were 
around at that time.  You know, the ones which were over the dilapidated 
stationary stores, with their windows painted black and a peep hole to check 
who was as the door when you knocked.  The ones that sold booze by making you 
go to the cloakroom and buy a ticket then present the ticket at the bar.  No 
ice, no mixes .. straight vodka or rum or gin, depending on the hour and what 
they had left.

These were invariably gay bars and half the clientele were drag queens… all 
of whom wore outfits that cost more than my entire wardrobe, and who were much 
better groomed than I have ever been.

There were always torch songs being sung by someone, and lots of slow dancing, 
and lots of weird stuff going on in corners and R and I would always sit at a 
big table, and, because we’ve known each other for years and have the kind of 
humor that sparks off each other, gradually we would gather a bunch of people 
around us.  We would all sing together with the singers, or have great group 
dances where I would be crushed into the manly bosoms of the very tall drag 
queens, and finally, about 4 in the morning, we would decide that we had to 
have a capuchino or die.  

In those days the only place for such exotic drinks was the Italian district of 
Vancouver so we would pile into several cars and head to Commercial Street,  
“the drive”, where there were a few places open.  We would have our coffee 
and that sweet wine that they used to serve in thimbles, and we would sing and 
cry and pledge eternal friendship until it was time to go back to R’s condo.

R and I usually got back between 5 and 6 and we would fall into bed immediately 
and sleep until noon.

Saturday began with R’s fresh squeezed orange juice mixed with some kind of 
sparkly wine, and his very good coffee which he would make while I slipped down 
to the Italian bakery just around the corner.  Then we would climb back into 
bed and eat and talk and plan our day.

Our Saturdays were always physical.  We would rent bikes and explore parts of 
the UBC endowment lands, or walk the sea wall or hike Lynn Canyon. We would eat 
hot dogs from the street venders and go to the little funny museums that 
Vancouver had … the one with the old machines, all of which would play for a 
nickel, or the doll museum, or the one of old farming implements.  Saturday 
nights were spent at the old Ridge theatre - a place that showed old movies, or 
at R’s place with rented videos.  Then we’d crawl into bed and cuddle and 
talk and eat cheese and drink wine until we fell asleep.

On Sunday R would get up and make his “sinful hot chocolate” while I would 
go and forage for croissants, and we would climb back into bed with our treats 
and talk for a few more hours until I had to reluctantly get dressed and head 
back to the real world.

Be patient, Hermitage is coming ….

On one specific Weekend, R and I went to a particularly seedy place for our 
after hours club.  I remember trying to pee without touching ANYTHING in the 
room, and deciding my hands would probably be cleaner if I didn’t wash them.  

I must have been gone for a while, because when I got back to the table R was 
sitting with a exceptionally urban looking fellow - named Kevin - who was some 
big guy in the San Francisco opera (not a performer, a manager) and who had 
come to Vancouver to do some slumming.  During one of the dances R took me 
aside and asked if I minded sleeping on the couch for this Weekend, not with 
him.  He definitely had other plans.  When I suggested that I could just fade 
out of the mix R said (rightly) that he though part of the charm was the two of 
us together, so I had to stick around.

So, we made our usual foray to the Italian district and when we got home we had 
Kevin with us and I did spend the night on the couch.

We took Kevin hiking the next day, I think to Grouse Mountain.  He was 
captivated.  I don’t think he had ever been out of a city in his life, or if 
so, it had been on a bus tour.  He couldn’t get over that we actually WALKED, 
that we sweated, that we had backpacks filled with food.  He was like a kid in 
a candy store.  

At the Ridge theatre that night he had a blast (I think it might have been the 
Sound of Music or something corny like that, and he loved it that the audience 
sang along).  

The next morning, he was very apologetic that I hadn’t had my “cuddle 
time” and so the three of us shared the chocolate and the pastries in R’s 
bed and we laughed and talked for a long time.

Suddenly Kevin said “we can’t let this go. You two MUST come to San 
Francisco.  There’s a couple of GREAT shows on at the moment.  I’ll take 
you to see the opera, you won’t believe the art galleries we have. ”

I laughed, because I already knew the cost, and for some reason R turned coy 
and said he had been wanting to see the Hermitage collection but he couldn’t 
possibly go without me.

“well come, the two of you” said Kevin, “look, I’ll pick up tickets for 
you both, it’s no trouble at all.  I have a big place with a guest room for 
Karla”.

At that point I started to feel terrible.  I mean, two guys, newly in love, why 
should I be there to be in the way?  I expressed this to Kevin who said 
“well, bring along a boyfriend.  I’ll pick up a ticket for him too”.

At that time I was between guys.  I quickly went through my mental files of all 
the guys I could ask … but couldn’t think of anyone at all.  

“Bring a girlfriend” was Kevin’s response.

So I picked up the phone and asked my friend Judy if she would like a long 
weekend in San Francisco, all expenses paid.  She jumped at it.

So it was settled.  We were to go in three weeks (which was the soonest I would 
be able to have another weekend away from my job).

This relative stranger, whom we had picked up the night before, had just agreed 
to fly three people, one of whom he had never met, down to his city for a long 
weekend, and wanted us to stay at his place.  It was exciting.  I couldn’t 
decide if he was brave or a total nut case.  I couldn’t decide if WE were!

Unfortunately, the week we were supposed to go my Grandmother died.  I had to 
stay and attend the funeral so Robert and Judy and Judy’s friend Joyce flew 
down and had a marvelous weekend. Oh, the days before 9/11 they were so lax. R 
brought a beautiful pair of amber earrings back for me, and Judy brought me the 
poster and then spent two hours describing the pictures to me.

So I never made it to the exhibition.  

And I’ve never been to San Francisco.

And Robert and I never have our Weekends anymore  (though we now have lunch 
together whenever I’m in town - and now I sometimes pay for it).

But I KNOW that I’m destined to see those paintings .. perhaps I’m meant to 
see them in Russia.

Hope this hasn’t been too long for you…. just think of this as my “almost 
travelled” story.

k
