I could have danced all night.

It was a time of optimism; of knowing that dances, speeches, marches, and 
protests could make a difference.  It was a time of late evening disputes over 
cappechinos and Marsala in small coffee shops near William Street, all night 
debates about the state of the world, and drunken early morning skinny dipping 
in English Bay.  

One Halloween, when my relationship with my current boyfriend, Danny, was 
surviving only because of our dedication to some particular cause, a friend 
threw a “come as your favorite socialist” party.

Danny, dressed as a Soviet hockey player (I can’t remember which one) and I, 
dressed as a Marvel Comic Book character named “Olga, the spy” (complete 
with bustier, fishnet stockings, and high heels) entered a smoke filled dungeon 
of Karl Marxs, Rosa Luxemburgs, Lenins, and Trotskys.
 
We were late and irritated with one another.  We separated; Danny to the table 
with the drinks, me to the dance floor.  I remember pounding beats … the 
Castro Samba, the 
Robert Mugabe Waltz, Mao’s Merengue.  Our passion, our dedication, our 
knowledge that we were right about this magnificent but difficult world, came 
through our bodies. 

There was only music, the pounding beat, smoke, sweat, darkness.  

After a while I abandoned the stiletto heels, and found myself dancing with a 
Soviet hockey player.  Not my Danny, who remained glued to the booze and 
shouted debate at the end of the room, but with a shy, stammering young man, 
who had, I found out later, dressed as a Soviet hockey player to be like Danny 
and get my attention.  I remember the strength of his forearms, the smell of 
his neck, his long hair brushing my face.  I remember the exhilaration of thigh 
against thigh, of furtive kisses, of not wanting to let go.  

In that sad, after glow of the real party, when there are determined stragglers 
who continue to bicker and debate, my new hockey player and I were still on the 
dance floor, still moving to the beat, unable to imagine letting go and moving 
on.  

I don’t remember how I broke away, but I do remember walking, in stiletto 
heels, the twenty some blocks to my apartment, still fresh and excited, wanting 
the night to go on and on, even as I watched the dawn of a new day beginning.

