My weekend with the teens

    Thursday.

    Karla has a meeting with Debbie (conductor of new chorus she has joined) 
and had planned to go straight to Kitimat and the Drama Festival after that ... 
but somehow got suckered into taking a teen with her.  So, hung around coffee 
shop until teen is out of school and goes to pick her up.

    To find she isn't going ... cause she couldn't find a billet.  Instead her 
saintly mother is driving her to Kitimat (45 minutes on a slightly dangerous 
highway), dropping her off, and then returning 4 or 5 hours later to pick her 
up for the night, and then returning her the next morning, picking her up the 
next night, etc. etc.
    Teen has also broken her arm and is in a heavy cast.

    Sometimes my mouth works WAY too fast for my brain cause my mouth opens and 
I hear, with horror, that I offer her a place in my room for that night... so 
at least that saves her mother 2 trips over the weekend.

    So we go to teen's place and load up her clothes and head out on to the 
highway ... now about 60 minutes late.
    I had carefully chosen my favourite driving music to listen to ... instead 
teen talks .....

    Subjects:
      teen was recently dumped by boyfriend
      speculation about why he broke up with her
      Karla is offered glimpses of finger and toe nails (painted different 
colours)
      comparisons of the quality of different kinds of nail polishes and polish 
removers
      what friends said about ex-boyfriend
      questions about teen "do you think I'm pretty?"  "what is my best 
feature?"  "do you think I should dye my hair?"
      discussion of different friends at school and how much make up they wear.
      contemplation re: perfume versus scented body butter
      etc. etc.

    It was a long 45 minutes.

    In Kitimat we arrive at the theatre and teen immediately disappears into 
mass of other teens.  Karla registers, gets info for her workshop.  Tries to 
find teen ... who hasn't registered, isn't sure if she's ready to go, etc. etc.

    Karla finds teacher who is at the same hotel and arranges that teen will 
get a ride and heads to hotel ... where she takes in her AND teen's stuff.

    Teen arrives to find that she has no cash .. therefore dinner is bought (by 
Karla) for her and they head back to the theatre.

    Three shows that night ... two weak and one very good.
    Between shows Karla talks with other teens who seem very capable of talking 
theatre, ideas, acting, etc. etc.

    After adjudication, teens are participating in the improv/junk challenge.  
Karla arranges ride for her teen again.

    Who arrives back late, proceeds to open and eat an amazing amount of junk 
food, to strew garbage all around (I have no idea where she got it ... either 
friends or she packed it in Terrace) and falls into bed and asleep immediately.


    Friday

    Karla rises, makes coffee, settles back into bed with book.

    Teen wakes.

    Karla says "I'm teaching a workshop this morning - and I have to review my 
notes, so if you can give me a bit of space ..... and you might want to clean 
up the garbage you left around last night."

    Teen, "Sure thing.  Do you think we should go and buy some eggs so I could 
make some scrambled?  I love scrambled eggs for breakfast."

    Karla "you can go get eggs, I'll lend you the money, but you realize that 
you WILL have to clean up your mess, right?"

    Teen, "Oh" and opens several chocolate bars for breakfast.

    Karla returns to notes ....

    Teen "OH, this is my favourite song ... " and thrusts ipod earphones into 
K's ears.
    After Karla has heard about 5 "favourite" songs, she suggests that she 
would like to go back to reviewing notes.

    Teen continues to talk ....

    Subjects:
      teen was recently dumped by boyfriend
      speculation about why he broke up with her
      Karla is offered glimpses of finger and toe nails (painted different 
colours)
      comparisons of the quality of different kinds of nail polishes and polish 
removers
      what friends said about ex-boyfriend
      questions about teen "do you think I'm pretty?"  "what is my best 
feature?"  "do you think I should dye my hair?"
      discussion of different friends at school and how much make up they wear.
      contemplation re: perfume versus scented body butter
      etc. etc.

    Karla suggests that they get to the theatre (thinking she will be able to 
review up there - where there are others to take teen's attention).
    Teen needs to shower .. with cast, she needs help.  So it is almost an hour 
before they get to the theatre ..  good thing we started when we did.

    Karla had said she would teach a class on stage status and stipulated no 
more than 20 - 25 in the class.  When she gets to the workshop room there are 
42 fresh, smiling, eager faces waiting for her.  What can you do?  She does her 
workshop.  It goes well, but there is not time for everyone to perform and we 
don't get through all the exercises.

    Teen is talking about staying in K's room again tonight.  K knows that she 
will not be able to stand it so lies and says "well, actually, G is planning to 
come out this evening and we are having a romantic evening."  Teen says, that's 
okay, she doesn't mind if G comes and stays in "our" room.  Seems quite put out 
that I won't let her stay with me.  Obviously I don't appreciate her.  I tell 
her to make other arrangements or call her mother.

    Teen says she is going to hang with friend.  Oh, no she never thought of 
lunch ... Karla takes her to subway and they pick up sandwich and then teen is 
returned to theatre to do another workshop.

    Karla goes to the beach and takes a walk.  Meets some very nice people, has 
a lovely chat, does a short walk - about 5 - 6 kilometers.

    Goes back to the rec centre and hits the pool and does 20 minutes of laps 
and 15 minutes in the hot tub.  Gets ready for the evening.  Takes book to a 
little coffee shop, orders a light dinner, settles down with book and good food 
... THIS is what the weekend was supposed to be like.

    Drops back to the hotel to find frantic messages from teen ... she's 
stranded at the theatre, no money and no dinner, can I come and pick her up?  I 
call her cell, tell her I'll be there in 10 minutes, please be at the door so I 
don't have to come in.  She promises.
    Ten minutes later Karla is there but teen is not.  Karla enters the 
theatre, looks everywhere.  Disturbs the tech rehearsal that is going on.  No 
teen.  Fed up, Karla heads back down town to see teen walking with young man 
towards the theatre.   She met him just after I called and oh, she must have 
lost track of the time.
    Karla is pissed, declines to invite the young man to go with them for 
dinner (which teen thinks is mean) takes teen back to Subway (as there is now 
very little time before the shows start and they are fast).
    dinner subjects:
      do I think the new boy likes her?
      teen was recently dumped by boyfriend
      speculation about why he broke up with her
      what friends said about ex-boyfriend and what they might say about new 
boy.
      questions "do you think I'm pretty?"    etc. etc.

    Four shows  this evening - emotional roller coaster evening.  Mask play, 
Farce, 1984 ish theme play, and environmental play - quite funny.  It was even 
more anxious as, when we got there we found that the lighting console had 
crashed.  I have worked with that type of console before and had the same thing 
happen so the show's TD and I took the console into another room and I showed 
him how to open the components and, sure enough, we found a cable that had 
almost slipped out of it's socket .. which made it intermittent.  (a problem 
with Strand lighting boards)

    After the show I found that, no, the teen hasn't called mother.  Damned if 
I was going to have her in my room again, I arrange with teacher that she can 
share a room with 3 other girls from Hazelton.  I hand her $10.00 for 
breakfast, make her come with me to get her stuff from my room, drop her back 
at the theatre and disappear.  And have a very happy evening all by myself in a 
too - warm hotel room ... but I have lovely tea, apples, a good book, access to 
good music and privacy!

    Saturday

    Karla wakes and is having a happy, quiet morning with book and good coffee 
when teen calls .... she needs to get her stuff to the theatre.  Well, it is 
almost time to go and teach my second Stage Status workshop anyway, so I go 
pick her up and we head to the theatre.

    This time when I enter the workshop room there are almost 60 kids packed 
in.  I look at the festival organizer who tells me that the kids who attended 
yesterday told their friends about the workshop and there had been a stampede 
this morning to transfer into my class.   What can you do?  It went okay, but  
we got through even fewer things.

    After the workshop I took a drive out to Kitimatt village - the First 
Nation's Village on the other side of the inlet.  I picked a young man who was 
hitchhiking to the village which was quite nice because, when we got there he 
took me for a walk around the village and we had a nice conversation.  I used 
to teach in Kitimat and some of his older cousins had been in my classes and we 
had a fine old time talking about people we both knew.  That's what it's like 
in little villages.
    After I left the village I started back and stopped at my favourite place 
on the inlet, parked and took a short hike up the mountain so I had a nice view 
of the whole inlet.  It wasn't until I got to the end of the trail I realized I 
had forgotten my camera - so I just sat and looked at the inlet ... and 
remembered how I used to come out to that spot about 30 years ago .. when I was 
a very young teacher and needed a quiet place away from work. It seems like a 
different lifetime.  Unfortunately the skies opened up and I got quite cold and 
wet on my way back to the car.  I was already checked out of my hotel so I 
headed back to the coffee shop to eat and get warmed up.   I had just ordered 
when I heard my name called.  It was James, one of the musicians from Nunsense, 
in Kitimat working that day.  So we had a very nice dinner together - talking 
music the whole time.

    I got back to the theatre quite early but that was great.  I hadn't had 
much time to hang out with the techs from Smithers, Kitimat, Hazelton, and 
Prince Rupert, and they were all there, so we sat around talked techie talk for 
over an hour.

    The last night's productions were very good.  I enjoyed myself completely.  
I knew immediately which production I would have chosen as best play, and 
filled out my list of best everythings ... then left it with one of the techs.. 
and headed home.

    Luckily the rain had eased up and the drive was very pleasant, as I got to 
listen to my music and didn't need to respond to any conversation.  Sunday they 
were doing final adjudications and awards but I was finished, and I just hung 
around home and rested ... I find that a weekend like that really tires me.  I 
am much older than I used to be.

    I was delighted that this year's adjudicator and I were pretty much on the 
same wave length.  His choices were quite similar to mine and where we differed 
I understood why.

    Sorry this has so long ... but  I'm just been typing without really 
thinking of editing.

    Now it is time to go and strip the kitchen floor (which is probably another 
reason this is so long ... I was putting off the inevitable.)

    all for now.

    k


