Good Advice

Bare stage, save for a variety of boxes and levels. As the lights dim a 
tape--of women singing is playing in the background. The tunes are varied, 
first nations chanting, hymns, folk songs.  The lights dim to black while the 
music continues.  

When the lights come up they reveal six women sitting and standing at various 
areas of the stage.  They are all dressed alike.  They are frozen.  The tape 
fades away. (Note: before every speech in this section the women clap three 
times ... it becomes a ritual for changing focus).  Each woman unfreezes for 
her speech then freezes again.  They are unaware of each other and talk to the 
audience.

(clap, clap, clap)

A:	Because of its comparatively soft bristles, the small brush is designed 
to cope with irregularly shaped furnishings.  It allows you to pry into all 
those un-get-able spots that are very vexing.  The uppermost slats of your 
Venetian blinds, the tops of door frames and moldings, yield their hidden curls 
of dust to the searching bristles attached to a long extension tube.

(clap, clap, clap)

B:	Go out, the first of fall and find the rosehips.  You take some big 
pails and you fill them up.  You mustn't come home until they're full.

(clap, clap, clap)

C:	When cooking campfire bannock, first you brown the bottom a little, 
then have it tilted towards the fire in a frying pan until it's golden brown.

(clap, clap, clap)

A:	Books are no longer a chore to dust.  Pull two or three for ward with 
one hand while you brush with the other, and a back-breaking job becomes 
comparatively easy.

(clap, clap, clap)

F:	Visiting in a friend's house, it's thoughtful to give the housemaid a 
little tip when you leave; a dollar if you and your husband have been weekend 
guests.  If you're living in a boardinghouse, a dollar a month for the maid is 
a good idea.  But if you get special service, such as ironing and mending, you 
should up the amount.

(clap, clap, clap)

You should by rights have attacked that stain as soon as the
.@ccident happened.  But in any case get after it before laundering.  For many 
spots become asset" in wash water and it's twice the job-if not impossible-to 
remove them afterward.

cla cla cla

S:	You need to do a lot of picking because you have to put them through a 
sieve ... because of the hair inside them.  The only thing you take from them 
is the syrup.

cl cla cla

D:	First thing in banishing a stain is to find out what caused it. Then 
you have to know your fabric too, and the technique of applying a suitable 
remover - or the cure may be worse than the

blemish.

cla cla cla

E:	When it's canoe time, you go to Lakelse Lake and cut the trees down 
because it belongs to the Tsimpshian, the Lakelse Lake.  You chop a tree down 
and then make the canoe.  Get the kids in there to help take the barks off and 
clean around the place.

cla   cla   cla

A:	The deepest crevices in carved furniture, the most elaborate pleats in 
lamp shades are reached by this gentle-action treatment.

la	cla cla

E: You	look for the Tight size rocks to use when you burn out the
inside	of the canoe finishing the chipping.  There is always
something for children to do.

cla   cla   cla

C:	That is like cooking in an oven.  Campfire is the most particular thing 
for heating, smoking meat and cooking.

cla   cla   cla

Give the bootblack 10c and the barber, manicurist or hairdresser 10% of the 
bill.  If you're taking a taxi a short distance 10c is okay, though naturally 
you'll allow more if he has to carry bags.

(clap, clap, clap)

C:	Everything that cooks over open fire is delicious.  My all time 
favourite is fresh, tender Moose meat; also, Sheep ribs that are roasted in an 
open campfire, not in an oven.

(clap, clap, clap)

One woman begins to sing "Rock of Ages", ioined by the other.  The move about 
the stage doing "housewife thin-gs", straightening, arranging, sewing, 
imaginary object.  At a signal they stop

E:	I was born in Iskut ...

A:	Victoria...

B:	Austria Hungary ...

C:	Port Essington...

F:	San Francisco ...

D:	Ontario ...

A:	My mother came from Vancouver island to see her Uncle Mack and Aunty 
Christine.  She stayed with them for a month or two and then she fell in love 
with dad.  So they got married.  They had a one room cabin in Rosswood and then 
Dad built two new little rooms on to that cabin.  And she was just eighteen 
years old when she got there.  What did she know?

B:	Did she know her life would be filled with children, weather, wildlife, 
husband?

E:	Did she know of the loneliness .... ?

F: The silence	      ?

A:	The children?

D: The sickness	         ?

C:	The laughter?
A:	What did she know?

F:	What did she know?
8	and D: What did she know?
E:	What did she know?
All: What did she know?

Women sing a song as they pick up imaginary bundles and knapsacks, Pull 
imaginary sleighs, it is obviously cold and the 'going is heavy. one of the 
women (8) is obviously Pregnant durin-q the speech her Tabour is obvious.  Two 
men join the group, traveling slowly.

My Great grandmother Ceceilia had 25 children.  In those days they lived on the 
trail and made camp, they hunt for the food, for them and the dog team.  
Grandpa would make a kill and their camp was closest to where he made a kill.  
The first kill would be for them, the next day he would hunt again and that 
would be for the dog team.

Woman groans.  The group stops.  Two women tend to Pregnant woman, men out 
branches, others make fire

In the summer, they would mainly stay in one spot because it's easier to get 
around on foot, and in the winter they would always travel.  There was a store 
at Telegraph Creek and Grandma and them stayed at Metsantam.  In the winter 
when they were traveling, if the woman was pregnant and went into labour, they 
would lay out brush, make a fly, and she would have her baby.  At the time of 
the birth they made ready a special spot under a big tree.

Two women tend to the pregnant woman.  Perhaps one could quietly through the 
next part of the scene.  The others sit around the fire, waiting,

They would all wait for the baby.  My people believe that one who is born 
outdoors will become very wise, and many great things will happen for them; 
they will be blessed with good health and have a long life.

The baby is born by C taking the "baby" out of a box and giving her to the 
mother.  Mother reclines against one of the helpers

8:	Having a baby on the trail is hard.  Sometimes I would tie the cord, 
sometimes my grandmother would, or the one who delivered me.  When babies are 
born in cold weather they're really strong..... or bad tempered.  I delivered 
many babies under a tent frame, on boughs.  Two hours

(begins to get up with the help of the women.  The rest make preparations for 
leaving)

and we were ready to leave.

Group begins to move as before.  Woman continues singing until a (clap, clap, 
clap-)

A:	What did she know?

F: What did she know?

C and D: What did she know?

E:	What did she know?
All: What did she know?

Women move into original positions while the men take up a stance upstage then 
...
(Clap, clap, clapl

A:	A gentleman should always precede a lady upstairs, and follow her 
downstairs.

(Clap, clap, cla2l

B:	If a lady is traveling with a gentleman, simply ab a friend she should 
place the amount of her expenses in his hands, or insist on paying her bills 
herself.

(Clap, clap, cla2l

C:	To take small children or dogs with you on a visit of ceremony is 
altogether vulgar, though in visiting familiar friends children are not 
objectionable.

(Clap, clap, clap)

D:	In crossing the street a lady should gracefully raise her dress a 
little above her ankle with one hand.  To raise the dress with both hands is 
vulgar, except in places where the mud is very deep.

(Clap, clap, cla2_1

F:	Avoid picking your teeth at the table if possible, but if you must, do 
it, if you can, where you are not observed.

(Clap, clap, clap)

E:	To ascertain what are the prescribed hours for calling in the place 
where one is living, or making a visit, and to adhere to those hours is a duty 
that must not be overlooked.

C:	What did she know?

All: What did she know?

(-@Lap -)
(women move for next scene, singin<i hush little baby)
D lies down, on boxes, obviously in Tabour, F and.Man 1 is with .her. She is 
obviously having problems.

A:	I was born March 28, 1928 in a little log cabin at Rosswood.
Mom had Mrs. Nightwine.  Mrs. Nightwine was the midwife.  She was with Mom but 
I couldn't come out.  Mom laboured and laboured, and Mrs. Nightwine did all she 
could.

F: Drink this, slowly now dear,
Man 1: Don't worry, I'll get the doctor
A:	So Dad walked to town, it took him two days to snowshoe into town, and 
get the doctor, and it took him two days to snowshoe back.

Man 1: Please hurry

Man 2: Hold, on, hold on, is this your first? improvise chatter

A:	And by that time the doctor was all in by the time he got to our house.

Man 1:  She's in here

Man 2: Just a minute, here, I've been walking a long way, I want some dinner.  
Woman, bring me some dinner, and something to warm me up.

F "enters" from bedroom and serves doctor who settles in for a long feed

A:	Anyway, he had to have his supper, and his little shot of something or 
another to get, you know, to get back together to work, and then he went into 
the bedroom, he was in a long time and then and then he came out and he said to 
Dad he said,

Man 2: well I can save one or the other, your wife or the baby.  It's up to 
you.  What's your choice?

Man 1: you better save the wife.

A, But I was sort of stubborn, and so I decided I wasn't going to have any of 
that.  They had to use forceps to pull me out but I came along right away.

Man 1: Is she like alright then?

A:	I was born OK but Mom just couldn't give birth by herself; she
didn't have the strength.  So that was a hard session for Mom.  Thank God we 
had a wonderful lady to take care of me.  Mrs. Nightwine stayed with Mom for a 
week and took care of Mom and me both.

(clap, clap, clap)

A: A busy child is always happy

(clap, clap, clap)-

B: Whoever Possesses the faculty to keep a child busy has a great
advantage in a household

(clap, clap, cia

C: A block of wood, a saucer full of tacks and a small tack hammer
will give a child more amusement than almost anything that can be

devised.

(clap, clap, clap)

D: It may make a little noise in the house but it will amuse the
child for a long time every day

(clap, c

B: Little ones find great pleasure in stringing buttons, and they
can soon learn to make ornamental work by sewing them on cloth in

simples designs.

(clap, clap, clap)-

Women move into---next scene.  It may take all of them (passengers nurses, 
etc.) If not, those not in the scene must stay on stage

-E:	My sister Clara had a cleft palate and a hare lip.  She was
about three and a half pounds when she was born.  And mother took her ... she 
took her to Rochester, to the Mayo brothers when she was under a year old and 
she had her done there.f

Man 1: But Edith, why can't we send her to Vancouver?

F:	They know more about such things in the States.  They're more ahead in 
surgery, and there is nothing here, no hospital, nothing.

E:	Of course, mother was an American

F:	Now, I'm leaving Dorothy here, and we'll get a nurse to look
after her, of course you'll also have the cook (to nurse, woman C-), now feed 
her every three hours, and change her regular, and you shouldn't have any 
problems.

(mother boards train with baby and imaginary case.  Sits next to Man 2, 
obviously drunk and obnoxious)

E:	By that time the railway was through so she went on the train
to	Edmonton, and on to Winnipey, then down to Rochester.

F:	(to audience) That was a journey.  Can you imagine me with a
child that young.  I had to feed her with an eye dropper.  We had a week on the 
train, and it was hard for me to wash her, and change diapers.  It was just 
terrible.  It took us a week to get there and the baby was sick all the way. 
(man sneezes directly on the baby and leans onto woman) Can you imagine with a 
sick baby?  I was just 29, but I felt a lot older by the time that trip was 
finished.

(mother steps off the tr

and when I got back, Dorothy was almost dead.  My husband would always say..

Man 1, if mother hadn't gotten back then, Dorothy would have died.  Her feeding 
didn't agree with her.  She was such a little weight when she was born, and her 
feeding didn't agree with her.  Anyway, mother got back and she took one look 
at her and she said

F:	We'll put her on Nestle's, (to audience) that's the milk you make candy 
with, milk that's sweetened?

E:	Condensed milk.

F:	Eagle Brand, because it's very, very, very rich.

E:	And she put me on Eagle Brand Condensed mild and I just
started to thrive and mother always said

F:	If I she hadn't got back when I did, that child would have been dead.

A: What did she know?

B & C: What did she know?

C-clap, clap, clac))

Women move into ext scene, changing any props etc. needed while saying winq

D:	Anyone can do the major part of the week's ironing sitting down.  But 
it does take a little organization before you begin.

A:	Garden tools deserve long-range care.  Keep all tools clean and dry.  A 
pail of sand into which digging implements can be plunged is a big help in 
achieving this.

C:	Remember though, if you're travelling in the U.S.A., tipping rates are 
higher all along the line.

D:	Put the dampened clothes in a basket at your right hand; then place a 
low table or rack to receive the finished pieces, to the left and slightly 
behind you.

A-	Any metal tools which are to be put away for more than a few days at a 
time should first be wiped with an oily cloth to prevent rust.

F:	Shears coated with plant sap should be thoroughly cleaned while it's 
still easy to get the sticky stuff off.

E:	Then treat all the flat pieces, lingerie, children's clothes and even 
the shirts to a quick efficient assembly line job.

(clap. c

8:	We lived in this one room cabin.  Dad cut big blocks of wood for 
stools. one was about this high for Mom to sit on, mom Woman E, sits) and a 
higher one was for me (Woman D sits), and a lower one for Dad.  I'll always 
remember that.  And our table was made of poles, round poles about so big.  And 
he hewed them, and then he nailed them to the wall, and then he had two pegs on 
this
	side to	hold it from falling over. And so this was our beautiful
	table.

	(women I	lie
	down)

	And like	over in the corner there was like a double bed made kind
	of thing	with round poles. And they too were hewed. And then

there were cedar boughs for a mattress, and so this is what we slept on for a 
long time, cedar boughs.  When they'd wear out, you'd go and get some more.  
Beautiful smelling cedar boughs.

But you see, every night, the mice would !go through these branches and 
whatever, and they'd go through our hair, walk by and all over US. I was 
sleeping and I, well, I just took it for granted that the mice lived with you 
and they were really no problem you know.  Why worry about it?

m wakes u

E: Charles, those mice are back again.  Can't you do something?

-Man 2: This is the middle of the forest, mice live here.  What do you want me 
to do.....
Improvise fight

B:	Every once and awhile Mom would wake up and blow her stack at Dad, you 
know in the morning.  And I would think, "why is,Mom mad at Dad this morning." 
And I couldn't you know I was.just a little girl, and I couldn't understand all 
of this.  Well of course I got older and could see why Mom would blow her 
stack.  Every once in awhile she'd get tired of these mice going through her 
hair. oh boy.  What a life!

(mom, dad and child get up and prepare for breakfast.  There is obviously an 
uneasy silence going on)

B:	Well anyway, then this went on and out in front of our cabin we have a 
roof out like so far to put the wood under and then there were two troughs 
about three feet long or maybe a little longer , I don't know.

(mom goes out to trough to get supplies, sees it is eaten through, goes to -get 
dad,)

B:	But anyway, each trough has its purpose.  One was for salt meat and the 
other was for salt fish.  And then every once in awhile a porcupine would like 
the salt be coming out of the log, so each would chew a hole or they would chew 
a hole, into these troughs every once in awhile, so Dad would have to make new 
troughs every once in awhile.

Man 2: Porcupines like to chew on the salty wood you see.  I'll make a new one

A:	What did she know?

C:  What did she know?

D and E: What did she know?

All: What did she know?

Women move into new positions singing

D:	I worked for Terrace Drugs in those days, it was located where the 
Terrace Inn is today, and was attached to one end of an old building.  I was 
getting $10.75 a week and when it was a busy 'day there would be it least 
$300.00 in the cash register.  My God, I remember that stuff was cheap, a 
chocolate bar cost 5 cents.

(note, during the entire process, the woman speaking tends the store, stops to 
help customers, charges for things.  Othe-r in the cast are customers although 
it would be good to have-one other to shop girl")

Sometimes I used to fill prescriptions because the pharmacist was always sick.  
The doctor's wife used to work with me and she used to do most of the refilling 
because she knew more than the rest of the staff did.

(to woman) That will be 65 cents please

They worked us hard.  I remember one time it was thirty five below zero and I 
still had to go down to check the fire at the drug store so everything won't 
freeze up, that's on my own time.  The place had no electricity or phone of 
course so we had to light a gas lamp every day.  All this for only $10.75 a week

(to woman) Down the aisle and over there on the shell.  You'll find it about 
half way down.

But we had fun too.  The drug store was open 9 till 9 and one day Mr. Riley was 
sick so we decided to go through boxes ourselves.  We unpacked some boxes and 
ran across some china like dishes.  We washed them all and set them out just 
so, on the table to be sold.  They were so different and well made that many of 
them sold.  We were so proud of ourselves.  While we were selling them Mr. 
Riley came in and he said

Man 2: You fools, that's are pharmacy equipment, put it all away right now.

Mr. Riley was often sick.  When it wasn't too busy we would lock up and bike 
down to Braun's Island and go for a swim in the slough One day when we got back 
and found Mr. Riley there and he was so mad that he fired us on the spot.

Man 2, That's it, you're fired.  The lot of you.  Get out.

The next day we just went to work pretending nothing happened and he didn't say 
anything.


