THE YOUNG LUTHERAN'S GUIDE TO THE ORCHESTRA

To each person God gives some talent, such as comedy, just to name one, or the 
ability to suffer, and to some persons God  has given musical talent, (though 
not to as many as think so).  

So for the young Lutheran, considering an orchestral career, the first question 
to ask yourself is: Do I have a genuine God-given talent or do I only seem 
talented compared to other young Lutherans?

Most Lutherans aren't musicians, they're choir members, mostly altos and bases, 
and they can be sure their gift is God given, because who else but God would be 
interested? Nobody goes into choir music for the wrong reasons.


But orchestra?  Do you know what you're getting into?  You're getting into 
opera, for one thing. ?  Don Juan and Mephistopheles and pagan goddesses being 
strangled,  and thrown off balconies.  And even if you stick to concert music, 
where are the Christian composers?  The modern ones are existentialists, the 
romantics were secular humanists, the 18th century was all rationalists, and 
the 17th were all Italian except for Bach, and you can't make a living playing 
Bach.

In the Bible, we read about people singing and playing musical instruments, 
including the harp, the last trumpet,  the cymbal, the psaltery, but in the 
bible, music was played in praise of the Lord, not for amusement.  We don't 
read that our Lord Himself ever played an instrument or enjoyed hearing others 
play theirs.  The apostles did not attend concerts, they weren't in the arts.  
Maybe there's a reason for that.  You play in an orchestra, you're going to be 
devoting your life to music that sort of swirls around in spiritual mystery, 
searching for 

 answers that people could find in the epistle to the Romans if somebody just 
showed them where it is.

But if you're determined to play in an orchestra, then you ought to ask 
yourself ......  Which instrument is the best one for a Lutheran to play?  If 
our Lord had played an instrument, which one would He have chosen?  

Probably not a French horn.  It takes too much of a person's life.  French horn 
players hardly have time to marry and have children.  The French horn is 
practically a religious belief all by itself.  In some orchestras the horn 
players are required to be celibate, sometimes by their wives, because they 
think about the horn all the time anyway.

Should a Lutheran play the bassoon?  Not if you want to be taken seriously.  
The name says it all: bassoon. It's an instrument that isn't playing with a 
full set of marbles.   Maybe you'd do it for a hobby ('Let's go bassooning this 
weekend, honey!') but not as your life's work.  Some Bassoonists, filling out 
applications for home loans, just say "orthodontist". 

Many Lutherans start out playing clarinets in marching band and think of the 
clarinet as a pretty good instrument and kind of social.  You pick up a 
clarinet and you feel like getting together with other people and forming an 
"M". But the symphonic clarinet is different, it's clever and sarcastic, kind 
of snooty.  It's a nice small town instrument that went to college and after 
that you can't get a simple answer out of it.  It is a French instrument, you 
know, ever wonder why there are no French Lutherans?  Probably the wine wasn't 
good enough for them.

The oboe is the sensualist of the woodwind section, and if there's one wind a 
Lutheran should avoid, it's this one.  In movie soundtracks, you tend to hear 
the oboe when the woman is taking her clothes off, or else later, when she asks 
the man for a cigarette.  You start playing the oboe, you're going to have 
babies, you take my word for it.

The English horn sounds Christian, maybe because we think of it as the Anglican 
horn, but it's so mournful, so plaintive.  And so are English horn players.  
They all have deep, complicated problems, they're all down in the dumps, 
especially at night, which is when concerts are.  Maybe because they want what 
oboists have, I don't know.

The flute is the big shot of the wind section.  Jean-Pierre Rampal, James 
Galway, both millionaires (how many millionaire, bassoonists can you name?), 
but that's fine, everybody knows it's the hardest.  Blowing across a tiny hole 
with your head tilted all your life, it's like soloing on a pop bottle.   The 
problem with flute is that it vibrates your brain, and you start wearing big, 
white caftans, and smocks and eat roots and berries, and you become a 
pantheist, and sit in meadows, and you believe that all is one, and God is 
everything, and God is a column of air vibrating, and you know that's not right.

The last member of the woodwind family is the flakiest, and that's the piccolo. 
 It's never in tune, never has been, never will be.  so all you can play with 
it is the blues, which, being Lutheran, we don't have anyway. No Salvation Army 
band every included a piccolo and no piccolo virtuoso ever did an album of 
gospel songs.  This is not a devotional instrument.

We come now to the string section.  Strings are mentioned in Scripture and so 
some Christians are tempted to become string players, but you want to be 
careful.  

Bass, for example.  An extremely slow instrument, the plow horse of the 
orchestra, and bass players tend to be a little methodical, not inventive, not 
quick, not witty or brilliant, but reliable.  This makes the bass appealing to 
German Lutherans.  And yet, bass notes have a darkness and depth to them that, 
let's face it, is sexual.  And when bass players pick up their bows, I don't 
think there's any doubt what's going on in their minds back there.  

The cello section seems pleasant, and cellists seem like such nice people.  The 
way they put their arms around their instruments, they look like parents at a 
day care centre, zipping up snowsuits.  They seem like us: comfortable, 
middle-range.  And yet there is something about the cello that's hard to put 
your fingers on.  The way they hold the instrument between their legs: why 
can't they hold it across their laps or alongside themselves?  I'm only asking.

The viola section is no place for a Lutheran and here you'll have to take my 
word for it because I know violists and they're okay until, late at night, they 
like to build a fire in a vacant lot and drink red wine and roast a chicken on 
a clothes hanger and talk about going to Mexico with somebody called Rita.  
Violists have this dark, moody, gypsy streak, especially when they get older 
and they realize that their instrument, for some reason, cannot be heard beyond 
the stage.  You think you hear the violists, but it's really the second violins.

The first violin is a problem for a Christian because it's a solo, virtuoso 
instrument, and we Christians are humble and decent people. The first violins 
see the maestro look  them first, and most of them believe that he  secretly 
takes his cue from watching their bows go up and down.  The conductor, a simple 
foreign person, gets hypnotized  by listening to the violins forgets which page 
he's on and looks to the violins to find out what's going on: this is what most 
violinists believe in their hearts.  If the conductor dropped dead, the 
orchestra would just follow the violin, while his little body was carried off 
into the wings, and nobody in the audience would notice any difference, except 
that now they'd have an unobstructed view of the violin section.  Is this a 
place for a Lutheran to be?  Did our Lord say, "Blessed are they who stand up 
in front and take deep bows for they will receive bigger fees?"  No he did not. 

The second violin section is attractive to Lutherans because these people are 
steady and supportive and helpful, but look who it is they help, they  help out 
the first violins.  You want to play second fiddle to that crowd?  No I hope 
not.  One thing you may not know about second violins is that the parts are so 
easy they never practice and they wind up staying out late on singles bars on 
the freeway near the airport and dancing with software salesmen, but I guess 
that's their business.

Let's be clear about the brass section. The rest of the orchestra wishes the 
brass were playing in another room, and so does the conductor.  His back is 
towards you, so you can't see what he's saying to them but what he's saying is: 
Would you mind taking that thing outside?   The brass section is made up of men 
who were at one time in the construction trades and went into music because the 
hours were better and there's less dust.  They are heavy dudes, and that's why 
composers wrote so few notes for them: because, after they play you can't hear 
for a while.  The tuba player, for example, is a stocky, bearded guy who's 
hobby is plumbing.  He's the only member of the orchestra who bowls over 250 
and gets his deer every year, and changes his own oil.  In his locker 
downstairs he keeps a pair of leaderhosen for free lance jobs  Anyway there's 
only one tuba and he's it.  

The trombonist is a humorist, sort of the brother - in - law of the orchestra.  
He carries a water spray gun to keep his slide moist and often uses it against 
other members of the orchestra.  That's why they duck down back there.  He's 
nobody you're ever want to see become artistic director, you just hope he 
doesn't sit right behind you. 

The trumpet is the brass instrument you imagine as a Christian, thinking of 
Gideon and Gabriel, but then you meet one in real-life and you realize how 
driven these people are.  They don't want to wear black tie and play Bach, they 
want capes and swords and tassels, they want to play as loud as they can and 
see mallards drop out of the ceiling.  Of the people who have keeled over dead 
at orchestra concerts, most of them were killed by a long trumpet passage, and 
most of them were glad to go.

There are two places in the orchestra for a Lutheran, and one is in the 
percussion section.  It's the most Christian instrument there is.  
Percussionists are endlessly patient, because they hardly ever get to play.  
Pages and pages of music go by where the violins are sawing away and the winds 
are tooting and the brass is blasting but the percussionist sits and counts the 
bars, like a hunter in the blind, waiting for the quail to appear.  A 
percussionist may have to wait for twenty Minutes just to play a few beats, but 
those beats have to be exact and they have to be passionate and climactic.  All 
that the epistles of Paul say a Christian should be - faithful, waiting, 
trusting, filled with fervor- are the qualities of the good percussionist.  

The other Lutheran instrument, of course, is the harp.  It is the perfect 
instrument for any Christian because it  keeps you humble and it keeps you 
home.  You can't run around with a harp.  Having one is like living with an 
elderly parent in very poor health - it's hard to get them in and out of cars, 
and it's hard to keep them happy.  It takes fourteen hours to tune a harp which 
remains in tune for about twenty minutes or until somebody opens a door.  It's 
an instrument for a saint.  

If a harpist could find a good percussionist, they wouldn't need anybody else.  
They could settle down and make perfectly good music, just the two of them.




