August 5, 2002

After a night at my sister in law’s home – woke early (6:00 a.m.) to find 
that my niece Amara (11 years old) was up before me and had made scones in my 
honour. Susan, Amara and I had breakfast and headed for the airport.  On the 
plane to Calgary – a beautiful day, chatty and nice looking man as a seat 
partner – all is right in the world.

Switched planes in Calgary and was handed a “good news/bad news” sheet.  
The good news – I would be making it to Halifax that day.  The bad news – 
Graham wouldn’t and would spent the night in Toronto.  The long flight to 
Halifax was NOT pleasant due to my new seat partner – a Jehovah Witness woman 
from Sydney, Nova Scotia – whose hobby was witnessing.

In Halifax it was humid and warm.  11:45 p.m. Halifax time – I have the name 
and the phone number of the hotel we are supposed to be staying at – but no 
more.  I make my way to the baggage place and see a familiar face – John 
McGowan – a one time Terrace resident and Terrace Little Theatre member who 
had moved home to Halifax the year before.  Hugs and cries of surprise.  A big 
reunion.  

John is in the airport to pick up his sister and her family who are returning 
from Calgary.  They insist on taking me to my hotel, but first we have to stop 
at the sister’s home to drop off the children, have tea, get a little tour of 
the house and have lots of good advice about what to see in Nova Scotia.  John 
drives me to my hotel – beat up and smoky – in Dartmouth.  I’ve had 
nothing but a scone and some fruit all day and I’m starving but the 
restaurant is closed.  It’s almost 2:00 a.m.  Corn chips and 7-up for dinner.

August 6, 2002

Up early, considering I’m still on Pacific Time and call Air Canada for news 
of Graham.  They have no idea.  Not wanting to miss a call or information I 
decide I must not leave the room.  TV – nothing on, book – no good reading 
chair.  A long and boring morning.  Finally, deciding I can’t go without 
coffee for one more minute, I leave the room and start down the hall, to see 
Graham walking up it.  

A lovely reunion.  Graham has had the trip from hell; about 3 hours sleep, and 
can’t remember the last time he ate.  We head down to the hotel restaurant 
and talk and talk.  It is GOOD to see him after almost a month apart.  

We take a cab downtown to Halifax and walk up through Church Square and 
Barrington Street and back through the twisting wharf area and historic 
properties.  The day, which has been threatening rain all day, suddenly turns 
wet, and a huge thunderstorm is underway.  It POURS with rain.  We huddle in 
the doorway of “the Decks” a famous Halifax pub.  The rain goes on and on.  
If Graham wasn’t so tired I would suggest we go in for a few drinks but he is 
almost asleep on his feet and we have to pick up our rental car.  

We make a dash for a hotel, and manage, by twisting and turning, to get from 
the hotel, through a series of indoor shopping malls, through other hotels, to 
close to our car rental place. It has stopped raining but water seems to hang 
in the air – and it is not cool either.  We know where our rental car is but 
there is no way to get there for pedestrians – so we make a large circuit and 
find the round Lutheran Church that Kris and I had searched for unsuccessfully 
last time we were here.  Finally we find a way to walk to the rental place and 
get our very nice car.  We call it “The Buick” – said in a deep, 
masculine voice – because this is not a wosey car. This is a MANLY car – 
power this and that, air conditioning.  

We drive to Point Pleasant Park to take a walk – but the skies open up again 
and it obviously isn’t our day.  So we head back to our bad hotel, or try to. 
 Never have there been so many signs, pointing in different directions, 
promising to take you to the same bridge.  By sheer fluke we get over the 
MacDonald Bridge (we were trying for the other one) and it is only through 
Graham’s sense of direction (I’ve thrown away the map by this time) that we 
find our way back to the hotel. We have several drinks in the bar – very 
smoky – walk over to get dinner and hit the bed early.

August 7, 2002

After Graham’s frightening brush with Halifax traffic the day before, we 
decide to get out of the city until we are used to the car – so we head north 
and actually drive around the city rather than through it and head for 
Peggy’s Cove.  It is windy and spitting, but the air is filled with the sweet 
scent of wild roses.  At first I think the smell is the air freshener in the 
car – but when you get out – it is even stronger.  

At Peggy’s Cove (the isolated, unspoiled lighthouse) it is REALLY busy.  
There are 5 tour buses parked in the lot and cars fill up the rest of the 
space.  There are people EVERYWHERE.  Still, it’s an Atlantic landmark and we 
walk down to the lighthouse and sit on the rocks and watch the Atlantic which 
is gray and looks cold and rough.  We stop at the carving of the fisherman’s 
life – but there are people everywhere and we decide to head south.

Off to Lunnenburg through small roads that remind you of the old island 
highway. Lunnenburg is beautiful, lovely coloured houses, and a great museum.  
We spend 4 hours there, looking at boats and fish, and engines and talking to 
the many wonderful people who staff the place.  We have lunch on a balcony 
overlooking the ocean, and watch sailboats head out.  The sun has come out and 
it’s warm.  We wander down the streets and look at the architecture.  Any one 
of those houses would be a cause for celebration in Terrace; there are so many 
incredible buildings we are having overload.

On our way out to the freeway, we double back and visit Mahone Bay – a 
village which seems to survive by selling crafts to tourists.  But again there 
are incredible houses and wonderful paint jobs, a lovely harbour.  We go to see 
the “three churches” which are next to each other on the bay, and then look 
for coffee so we can sit and soak up the atmosphere.  

Then on to the highway all the way to Liverpool.  Thanks to the Lonely Planet 
book we find a cheap little funky motel.  They are paving their driveway so 
Graham has to take the car “overland” to get to our room.  We sit outside 
with Caesars and had a deli dinner on plastic plates and talk and talk.   
Finally the mosquitoes drive us inside. 

August 8, 2002

Nova Scotia hotels are good at breakfasts so we have a big one before setting 
out.  We head to Shelburne – once a ship building centre, now a centre for 
yacht building.  We fall in love with this place.  It has all the charm of 
Lunnenburg but none of the rush.  Lawyers and dance studios and chiropractors 
use the beautiful old buildings as offices – not tourist B & B’s.  We visit 
the Ross-Thompson museum – a home and store of a shipping merchant.  The 
staff of the place are very friendly and we have a spirited and interesting 
talk about costuming (this is where the Scarlet Letter was filmed).  One of the 
women at the museum took a year off work to be assistant to the costumer of  
the Scarlet Letter, and pulls out books of costumes and, patterns, and brings 
out the few clothing pieces they have in the store.  They are magnificent – 
especially the shoes.  We spend a lot of time talking about costume in theatre 
and movies.   We also see twists of tobacco, and a sugar loaf and we ask many 
questions – some of which cannot be answered by the people there.  

We walk down to the docks and walk along the boardwalk and up along the 
beautiful streets.  It’s warm and breezy and quite sleepy.  A lovely town.

On to Barrington, to see a lighthouse and a woolen cloth mill.  The lighthouse 
is our first but is not complete, and although you can climb the stairs – the 
whole light is not there.  At the cloth mill (opened in 1800 and not closed 
until the 1969) we see all sorts of machinery etc, but don’t know enough 
about clothing manufacturing to see how it’s done.  Luckily the staff members 
(university students who seem to be rather shy) know a lot and will talk to you 
after you ask enough questions.  The whole thing was water powered by a small 
stream that still runs under the building.

We head to Yarmouth – Karla doing the navigating – but we get lost and 
instead of getting onto the freeway -–we make our way along a secondary 
highway that winds in and out of all sorts of little villages.  It’s pretty, 
but we’ve done a lot of driving today and want to stop.  Finally we find the 
freeway and make good time to Yarmouth.

Yarmouth is a town which underwhelms you.  It’s small, friendly, foggy and 
hasn’t much to offer except that it is the town where the ferry from Maine 
docks.  We had thought to stay there for the night, but it was still afternoon 
and there didn’t seem to be anything to DO in Yarmouth.  After a delicious 
coffee and pastry at a small shop and conversation with the waitress – we 
decide to push on to Digby that night – through the South Shore.

The South Shore is the French shore and you can tell it’s French by the look 
of the houses (less colour but a kind of European class) and the French on all 
the signs.  As we are weaving in and out of so many little villages, we decide 
to look for a place to stay the night.  No such luck – there just doesn’t 
seem to be any hotels.  The towns are small and seem to be farming communities, 
but they can’t be making their living through tourism – we don’t see any 
signs advertising cabins or motels so we keep driving.  We do stop at a small 
market where Karla attempts to shop in French – but when they hear her accent 
they immediately switch to English.  Fresh vegetables and newly baked bread!

When we finally get to Digby we realize that we are there in the middle of the 
scallop festival.  Thousands of people have landed in the town and there is not 
a hotel room available.  We stop at a few places and call more – but we can 
find nothing.  Finally Graham sees a vacancy sign and stops – to find a very 
friendly woman who informs us that the “no” was stolen – and she’s full 
up.  BUT she advises us to go north to Annapolis Royal – only 15 minutes up 
the road.  We get the last room in town.  The night before they were sending 
people to Yarmouth for hotels rooms!!   Heaven to get out of the car.  A nice 
clean room, good reading chairs, pleasant garden in front, good information 
about the area.  The only problem is – they don’t have a room for the next 
night.  

Deciding we can’t do another long driving day – we call around to find a 
local place which CAN take us the next day – we find a place in New Minus – 
just 2 hours up the road.  The plan, spend all of tomorrow in Annapolis Royal 
and then do a short drive up to the new place and STOP all this driving.  We 
find a place which serves both Chinese vegetables AND Digby scallops.   
Exhausted.

August 9, 2002

A late start in the morning, after a light breakfast in the “common room” 
of the hotel.  Sunny and warm.  We take off to the Historical Gardens, a 
beautiful few acres dedicated to different forms of gardens found in Nova 
Scotia.  The Acadian garden has a reconstructed home which is very interesting. 
 Even though they were in the wilderness – they mimicked the French formal 
form – even in their vegetable gardens!!  Our favourites were the Victorian 
Gardens – just spilling over with blooms and a very special kind of 
controlled chaos, and the knot garden – where low shrubs were planted into 
patterns to form visual knots.  They were very beautiful and take over a 
generation to grow properly.  A pleasant morning and walk.

On to Fort Anne – an English fort much like the Citadel in Halifax.  Quite a 
disappointment.  Very few interpretation stations and for those of us who know 
little about warfare in that century, we found ourselves wandering about on 
grass and looking at cannons and storage units but with little background it 
made little sense.  No guides on the premises.  However, the trees on the 
property are magnificent and we walked to a little bakery for pastries and 
coffee and carried them back to enjoy them under the big oak trees.  

On to the tidal generating station – which is also a tourist bureau.  I stay 
downstairs and talk to the women about ways to get to the next town, which 
Graham disappears upstairs to look at the station.  He is back in a minute, 
utterly dismayed by the lack of things to see.  Lots of theory, no chance to 
see the equipment.  Well, says the nice woman at the tourist bureau, for a 
small donation, she will take us down.  Graham produces a $20.00 bill (which 
apparently goes to a children’s hospital) , we don hardhats and are taken on 
a tour.  About 45 minutes in the bowels of the generating station.  The little 
woman giving the tour is very knowledgable and yells above the whine of the 
plant to let us know how power is produced.  Graham is fascinated , I spend my 
time looking at all the amazing pipes which go everywhere.  When we get back 
there is another group waiting to go down.  I suspect our guide will have a 
very sore throat by the end of the day.

Our “Lonely Planet” book reccomends going to Port Royal on the other side 
of the bay from Annapolis Royal.  We drive there through “Granville Ferry” 
a little town on the other side of the bay.  Incredible houses once again, and 
businesses that have to be seen to be believed – a restaurant/corner 
store/paint shop/post office, a hardware store/surveying company etc.  Everyone 
seems to have something to sell at the end of their driveway – wooden toys, 
fruit, sand candles, etc.  

At the end of the road is Port Royal, a reconstruction of Champlain’s first 
settlement in Canada.  Where the Company of Good Cheer was first formed.  We 
are SO glad we came.  Friendly and informative guides – the concept of clean 
clothes in those days was one of “dry friction”   In other words you wore 
your clothes and walked briskly when the sun was out and it was assumed that 
the dirt would just drop off.  They must have smelled interesting.  The 
reconstruction is built from many drawings of Champlain.  The great hall is a 
modest sized room, the gentlemen’s rooms are small – and the workers have a 
large room with many beds.  Two men to a bed interestingly.  Probably for 
warmth.

We meander back through Lawrencetown (ho hum), Middleton (wonderful), Kingston 
(nice), Aylesford  etc. until we have seen enough of the valley and took the 
freeway to New Minas – to discover a soccer tournament is in town  - 5000 
strong.  We’re glad we had booked a room the day before.

A few hours of relaxation at the hotel, then off to Wolfville – about 20 
minutes away – for dinner at a brew pub and a wander around the streets of 
the town.  It is a beautiful little place, and so obviously a university town 
– with interesting second hand book stores and cheap student hangouts.

Decide to try the “Atlantic Theatre Festival”  and get tickets to 
“Charlie’s Aunt” .  The theatre is an old hockey rink with 400 seats in a 
thrust configuration.  They have the BEST is lighting and sound equipment and 
watching the set changes is exciting – almost a play in itself.  A great 
evening.  We take time after the performance to stroll around the town a bit 
more before returning to our hotel and the soccer players there.  

August 10, 2002

Decided this morning that this will be our last day of super driving for a 
little while.  We’re both tired of being in the car so much.  The hotel has a 
continental breakfast which is easy to take back to our room but Graham is 
anxious to start off – so he could get to wherever we were going today. 

Left at 8:00 a.m. to do a quick drive to Amhearst where we have booked for 2 
nights.  Went on a detour through Windsor – a nice looking town – very 
beautiful with old buildings and lots of brick.  It looks like a lovely spot. 

Decided to take the freeway all the way – as we’re tired of meandering 
roads.  We were surprised to find a toll booth on the Trans Canada but paid our 
toll gladly – as we can get there FAST.  NS looks small, but there is still 
lots of driving in it.  Found Amhearst – Small, depressed with lots of 
beautiful red brick and red stone buildings which are empty.  Stores closed up 
and empty.  

Our motel was small, and clean, but opened on to a parking lot, cracked 
sidewalk and road.  You could not call it pretty, even with the largest stretch 
of imagination.  It was very hot – so we take chairs outside and sit and 
drank beer.  The first steps towards “trailer trash”.  I feel like 
something out of a movie.

People here may be unemployeed but they are numberous  - we see three weddings 
in the first half day we are here.    Graham takes a walk around town – I 
stay at the motel and read in the parking lot.  When I get too hot I go in to 
wash clothes and Graham returns and has a long, rambling political discussion 
with the painter next door and his friend.  They are in town to do a job and 
staying at the hotel.  Lots of “man talk” and swearing.

When it cools down Graham and I take a walk downtown to look at the stone 
buildings and fell into conversation with the Anglican minister who invites us 
to church the next day and seems anxious to fill us in on the entire history of 
the area.  We walk around the stone buildings and around the streets.  
Everything closes by 5 p.m.  

We make a meal of salads in our room, listen to CBC, sit in the sun, and relax 
for the rest of the evening.  Just as we were ready to go to bed, our 
neighbours next door decided to bring back some women for a party.  A rather 
loud party, until 4:00 a.m.

August 11

Set off early for the flower pot rocks with a home made picnic of salads and 
cold chicken.  We walk down to the cliffs, then down the stairs to the rocks.  
(the beach here is called “the ocean floor”) Lots of people everywhere – 
well, New Brunswick must find tourists where they can.  We walk the beach for a 
while, then climb up the cliff and find a shady spot over the ocean to relax 
at.  We watch the tide, have our picnic lunch, read and watch the tide some 
more.  Low tide that day is 1 foot – high tide 46 feet.  Spend several hours 
in the area – hot and beautiful – watched kyackers being taught how to 
fight the waves, and children scream as they get caught in the mud of the 
beach.  When the tide is almost full, we decide we have seen enough of the 
beach and take the shuttle back up to the car.

Driving through Hillsborough on our way home, we happen to see a “railway 
museum” sign.  Stop on a whim and discover that a train which goes once a 
week on a one hour journey, is about to depart.  Quickly purchase tickets and 
are on our way to Salem.  

The cars are refinished 1912 coaches pulled by a GP4 deisel engine.  Volunteers 
on board are all train affectionatos.  They love the train as do many of the 
passengers.  The man acting as conductor informs us that the “young 
fellows” – those 66 years old and younger, get to be engineers.  The older 
types are the conductors.

The track is old and rocky, and the windows open up, so you can lean out of the 
cars and pick the flowers that are on the side of the track.  It’s a fun 
little ride. 

An hour later we are at the railway museum.  My favourite part of it is a sign 
informing young women whom to talk to if they know no one at the station they 
have arrived at. 

We head home in a great mood and discover that there is a “theatre 
festival” going on in Amhearst.  I walk down to see what is happening, and 
find out that it’s the last night of a show called “Lobster Tales”.  
Graham and I go to the local diner (reccomended by the actors at the theatre) 
for a down home dinner.  Everyone working at the diner looks to be at least 55 
years old.  It’s really mom and pop cooking and it’s cheap.  We have a 
conversation with everyone working in the restaurant and end up taking pictures 
of the entire staff.

Back to the “theatre festival” which takes place in an old building with 
horrible accoustic tiles, a makeshift stage and a series of uncomfortable 
stacking chairs. Six Fresnels lights and two 6 x 9’s.   A three hander – 
the woman and one of the men are very good – the other man makes you cringe 
– he only has one motivation and that is to be cute.  HOT!!!  Graham leaves 
at intermission, but I stay to the end.  Some nice moments but it has a lot of 
examples of the worst of “little theatre”.  After the show (which is packed 
by relatives and friends and which receives a standing ovation) I hang around 
and talk to the actors a bit.  We have a fun time talking about the horrors of 
putting on plays in make shift rooms.  I wind my way home after a few drinks 
and many traded theatre stories.

August 12

Armed with maps, we leave early for the Confederation Bridge.  A lovely piece 
of architechture that you can’t appreciate from the road or the bridge.  The 
postcards are the best way to see it.  Once on PEI we head towards Summerside 
– to find their boardwalk.  WHAT has tourism done to this place?  It’s a 
series of tacky stores and empty buildings.  It’s also a series of strip 
malls.  All those references to the place in the Ann books have done the city a 
great disservice.  There are Ann of Green Gables dolls, hats, potato chips, 
sweaters, syrup, etc. etc.  There is even a stuffed moose wearing a mountie hat 
and an Ann T-shirt!  Ugly, ugly urban sprawl.

We decide to head to someplace smaller so turn towards Kensington – where 
there is a railway museum.  Whatever they are paying their summer students 
there it is too much.  They are not interested in being there and are vaguely 
irritated that you are coming in and disturbing their complaining to each 
other.  No information, no help, not interested.


