100 days


The other day I chanced on a calendar which not only told one what day it was, 
but also the day of the year you were at. As luck would have it, the day I 
found this lovely item, I learned that it was day 265 of the year.
“Well,” I thought, “what do you know, there are only 100 days left in the 
year.”
Then I realized there were only 100 days left in the DECADE!
What is it about certain milestone numbers that make them important? Suddenly I 
was seized with a desire to make those 100 days count. I kept thinking of what 
I should do …
I could do 10 push ups a day … so by the end of the year I would have done 
1000 pushups AND have a great deal more upper body strength.
I could learn a Hindi word a day for the next 100 days.
I could make a list of 100 small household tasks and actually DO one a day.
I could write down one memory about some different person in my life each day 
… for a collection of “slice of life” thoughts
I could start at the first shelf of our CD’s work my way through them with a 
new CD each day and listen to at least one song … until the end of the year. 
There are some CD’s on the shelf that haven’t been heard in a long time.
I could put a clear glass vase on my table and every day bring home a small and 
interesting rock which I found on my walks that day … so each rock would have 
a small memory attached to it.
Alternately, I could fill a bowl with 100 pretty glass marbles and each day on 
my walks find a spot to leave one (tucked away under an appealing flowering 
bush, wedged into an interesting array of rocks, flung out into the lake, 
placed in the rapid flow of a creek) and hope that a few would be found and 
treasured.
The list is endless.
Of course I did nothing. At this moment I am just content to have two big shows 
out of the way and a grant proposal done and handed in (I did it one day and 
handed it in the same day … NEVER a good policy, but I just couldn’t make 
myself wait … because I knew that I would have to read it again, and I just 
didn’t have the heart).
Today it is gray and rainy. I shall go into work and try to tackle the dross on 
my desk, stock up the concession and then hightail home. There are NO shows 
this weekend, and I intend to enjoy the fact that I actually get a Saturday 
off. One of my sister nuns has a birthday party this Saturday, but I may just 
give it a miss and spend a luxurious Saturday night in the bath, with creams, 
lotions, a good book and candles. WHAT a wild woman I am!



