So I got this from a friend:

You are supposed to write down 20 random things about yourself .. in about 10 
minutes - in other words you just write the first 20 things that pop into your 
head. I've been receiving quite a few of these from friends, and it's SO 
interesting.

Here are mine ... including the "prologue" from Caitlin.

Still battling a cold but it's full steam ahead tomorrow ... as I have a 
picture hang in the morning and an "unpleasant' meeting in the afternoon.

k



So, I'm supposed to tag 20 people who are also supposed to do this '20 Random 
Things' schtick, including the person who tagged me (which seems a bit 
circular, but there you are). Here we go. The following are 20 random facts 'n' 
stuff about me, in case you care or are bored. :p


Karla's 20 Randoms...

1. Ice cream and popcorn are my two favourite junk food categories.
2. In grade 10 I was a basketball cheerleader
3. I usually have 3 books on the go at one time.
4. When I was little I wanted to grow up to be Robin Hood, and I wanted RH to 
be female.
5. I currently have 5 pen pals (2 called Michael and 2 called Jerome) - 3 of 
whom I’ve never met in person. We all write at least once a week.
6. I can’t remember the last time I went a day without coffee … surely 
it’s been years.
7. Pretty lingerie, books, coffee and tickets to events are things on which I 
spend a lot of money.
8. When I had a son I was scared because I didn’t understand male culture. 
I’m not scared now but I still don’t understand it.
9. I am addicted to social history and read a lot of it. Including weird things 
like, the history of gloves.
10. I like small ensemble music better than orchestral music.
11. Jig saw puzzles and British murder mysteries make me think there is order 
in the world.
12. I really really would like to have a tail. I think I was MEANT to have one. 
This is one of the reasons I am jealous of my cat.
13. When people read aloud to me, I feel that all is right in the world.
14. There are times I feel completely, absolutely exultant. Joy fills every 
part of me. These times are usually connected with theatre, music or kayaking.
15. I need to spend time every year near the ocean. Looking, walking, singing, 
swimming, BEING.
16. At every “stage” of my life I have found soul sisters/brothers whom I 
dearly love and for whom I am SO thankful. They are part of my “family” 
forever.
17. I try to live through my intellect but I fear that I usually live through 
my senses.
18. There is never enough time to do what I want to do … but I also waste a 
lot of time.
19. There are many plays and short stories on my computer. They never see the 
light of day and many are never completed.
20. My life is filled with too much STUFF and not enough EXPERIENCES.




