Dear Diana:

I wrote this last year, I had just learned how to play scrabble and it was 
after my first official game.  And it was an old board and the tiles were 
stained pink.  I also listened to an ideas program on Romance novels.  from 
those experiences this short story was born.  Do feel free to just delete.

k


I wake up to sunshine this fine morning, slipping like syrup over the bedsheets 
and around the secret corners of the bedroom and walk out of the cabin to find 
you have placed two, wine coloured wing back chairs, that last night were on 
either side of the fireplace, on the lawn; facing the sun.

"Your morning coffee" you say, as I wander out unsteadily, and plunk myself 
into the chair's warm and welcoming embrace.

"Oh my" say I

"you need to comfortably greet the day" you smile, "so I brought out a comfy 
chair"

"of course I do... need to greet the morning I mean" I stammer then turn to the 
fragrant coffee.

"the grass is pretty" I say

"yes" you reply.

"so are the trees"

"and the sky" you respond.

There is silence .. comfortable and warm.

We wander around the property, watering the garden, talking little.

There is no plan.

But, of course, soon we find ourselves back in bed.

"I feel rather silly," I say, "I feel too old to be jumping into bed before 
noon"

You laugh , then I laugh .. because I'm old enough to know it doesn't matter.  

We decide to concoct a series of stores to tell to people "how we met"

"I was casting for trout in a stream" I say.  "And I felt a tremendous tug on 
the line.  When I finally reeled in, your shirt tail was caught.  You had 
been visiting the mermaids when the hook came your way."

"But trout live in streams and mermaids live in the ocean" you say

"good thing too" I reply, "as the mermaids would be jealous and would drown 
me.  But they can't get up the river; too much fresh water gives them 
migraines."

"I knew that" you say.

"I was running the Boston marathon" you say, "and I looked down at my feet and 
saw a ruby with a tiny princess imprisoned inside.  I didn't have much time so 
I scooped up the ruby and placed it in my pocket.  And after I won the 
marathon I forgot all about it until 2 days later when I washed my running 
clothes and something fell out of the pocket.  I had a devil of a time 
breaking open the ruby without harming the woman inside"

"how did I grow to my present size?" I ask

"I fed you on moon beams and ginger tea" you say, "and little puff pastries, 
and nasturtium petals and salt from the sea."

"oh, of course, I forgot that part" I say.

"I was captured by goblins and forced to work in the puddling shops." I muse, 
"It was so hot there I could not cry .. as the tears would immediately 
evaporate."

"Poor you!" you exclaim

"One day we were visited by warriors from Byzantium"

"and I was one?" you ask?

"no" I say sternly .. "well you would have been, but you interrupted and I have 
now remembered that you were a groom ... and your job was to hold the horses 
while the warriors chose their swords."

"so how did we meet?" you ask

"I'm remembering," I say ... casting my mind around, "oh yes ... it was so hot 
in the forge that I was sent out to get water for our guests."

"And I saw you and fell in love?" you suggest

"All hot and sweaty and dirty and tarnished from forge?  Probably not." I 
say.  "Even you wouldn't have been able to see beneath all the grime.  No, I 
probably startled the horse by my sudden appearance - and while you were 
calming him, I jumped into the saddle."

"how come you knew how to ride?" you ask

"I think I have a natural gift with horses, " I say

"Oh right, of course you do" you say

"And I rode away, desperate to get my freedom." I say

"What about me?" you query

"You had to get the horse back, so you ran after us." I say.  "and I had 
galloped far away and it took you a long time to follow the trail.  And I had 
stopped at the river's edge and was having a bath.  And just as you, hot and 
tired, mounted the last ridge, you saw me rising from the water like ... oh who 
was that?"

"I don't know" you say, "maybe  a whale?"

"thanks a bunch" I snap

"well, you love Belugas - with their soft baby mouths?"

"yes, but I don't want to look like one.  No.   I reminded you of, Aphrodite, 
the goddess of love" I say.

"oh her," you say, "isn't she the one with no arms?"

"No, that's Venus de Milo .. who .... oh you're right, she's also Aphrodite.  
Anyway I reminded you of Aphrodite .. only one with both arms and legs and you 
fell in love ... and we discovered that the saddle on the horse could be 
modified to comfortably seat two .. so we rode away into the sunset. Literally."

"my turn" you say ... and are about to start another story when I say

"I'm hungry.  Do we have any mangoes and champagne?"

"We always have mangoes" you say, "you know that.  But we don't have 
champagne.  Alcohol gives you hot flashes and headaches."

I am already getting out of bed.  Pulling on my flannelette nightie and my 
fuzzy socks I turn towards the fridge.

"we have soda water" I say, head in the fridge, "and mangoes and half a 
pomegranate.  Who keeps half a pomegranate?  Oh well, it seems significantly 
Greek enough.  Let's have a picnic".

And I take the food and the cans and head out the door. 

We spread an old quilt out on the lawn and settle down for a feast.

"when I was younger" I say, "I would have dressed in something slinky and sexy 
.. but pomegranates stain and this is an old nightie so that's okay."

"And I'm okay in my tatty old jogging pants?" you ask.

"you are beautiful in your tatty old jogging pants " I pronounce.

"the other thing I would have done when I was younger is hold a naked picnic" I 
muse, as I sneak the last of the mango bits from the bowl.  "but some things 
are better concealed. "and this wasn't the most filling picnic lunch.  What 
would have been better?"

"Bread and cheese and wine" you say

"yes" I concur, "but if I had my wish it would be something like creme brule 
for a main course and toffee popcorn for dessert."

you look at me in horror

"Okay, that's a bit much" I concede.  "how about a sugar salad and the ice 
cream for dessert."

"what's sugar salad"

"haven't you had sugar salad?  You open a package of smarties, and a package 
of m & m's, and one of skittles.  You pour them into one big bowl, mix gently 
and serve."

"maybe we should go back to bed" you suggest

"excellent idea" I say

"a LOT better idea than sugar salad" you pronounce.

I'm not all that sure .. but I don't say anything.

And after some time in bed we start to make lists.

"let's make a list of movies and tv shows and songs that have the word 'love' 
in them" I say

"I Love Lucy" we say simultaneously.  And laugh.

"Love for Lydia"

"Love Story"

"From Russia with Love"

"Shakespeare in Love"

"Love Makes the World go Round"

"Oh, this is too easy," you say, "let's do something else."

"I just learned to play scrabble" I say .. "is there a scrabble board around 
here?"

It turns out there is one ... old and well used and well loved.  Some of the 
tiles are stained pink from long exposure to the box interior.  On go the 
tatty pants and flannelette nightie.  

Luckily the quilt is still on the lawn.

"Now let's see" you say, as you scan the rules.

"NEW RULES" I declare.  "we must use all the letters we get each turn ... and 
create words that should be part of the English language. I'll go first."

galpine - the secret dance of lawn gnomes

chedmard - a cable that has universal conductivity .. so can be used in any 
application.  

teotasea - the urge that you must kiss someone when they walk in the room

bumjelds - the stuff left by hobos when they have used a campsite

fundieos - salt water taffy made with water from the Bay of Fundy.

"hey, that's like Oreos" you say.  "That's a name; you can't use proper nouns 
in Scrabble"

"right, sorry" I say .. changing around the letters.... "let's see .. oh I know 
.... fundseio - an honourary aunt who comes to visit with lots of presents."

"I don't think that's the way you spell it" you say.

"hmmmm" I reply, "do you have your dictionary of imaginary words with you?"

"No" you say, "I didn't bring it, short sighted of me, I know."

"yes" I sigh .. "nothing for it but to declare me the winner, I suppose."

"and why are you the winner?"

"because I'm very cute, because you called me a whale, and because I have one 
extra word on the board."

"Oh, I didn't see that" you admit, "I guess you are the winner; and you have 
very pretty blue eyes .. even if you are wearing a flannelette nightie with 
pomegranate stains on it"

"Is it too indulgent to go back to bed again today?" I ask.

"of course not" you assure me.

Later on I ask you to name a part of the body.

"elbow" you say

"elbow?"

"it's a part of the body and I just hit it on the dressing table"

"and chose a number between 1 and 50" I say

"37"

I realize quite soon that even if you are in love .. one elbow does not ever 
warrant 37 kisses.  But is is a valiant try.

And after a dinner of savory things on the quilt, I say "this nightie 
definitely needs a wash. Look ... pomegranate stains and crushed pimento right 
here.  

"when did we have pimentos?"

"they were in some of the spiced olives - I ate all the ones with pimentos ... 
sorry.  But I left you the chicken breast." 

"you prefer dark meat" you remind me

"yes, but you like white, and I left it for you, so I got the olives.  Makes 
sense right?"

"oh course"    

"Shall we bring in the chairs for the night?" you ask

"I don't think they've ever been out to see the stars" I say, "maybe they would 
like a night outside."

"what if it rains?" You ask

"then the chairs will be sodden and musty, but will have a good story to tell."

"even if it doesn't rain there will probably be dew" you caution

"I wonder if chairs ever wish to be kissed with dew.  It sounds really nice .. 
but I think it would be cold.  It's something that milk maids do ... you know 
that folk song "Dabbling in the Dew."

I realize that I have completely lost you ... as you look at me with 
bewilderment.

"and there is the Queen's maying.  You know .. the Queens of England used to 
go out on May Day and collect dew to wash with or something.  I think.  Isn't 
that right"

You laugh.  "how would I know?"  

Then you go on ... "I suppose we need to leave the scrabble game out too?"

"Oh I don't think so"  I reason.  "Scrabble tiles are used to being in a bag 
.. they would probably feel too exposed outside for a whole night".

"Then you are denying the scrabble tiles the freedom you are giving the 
chairs?" you tease.

"For their own good" I respond... "but maybe we can put them in their bag and 
leave the bag a little bit open and on the window sill.  That way they won't 
be afraid and they will still get a glimpse of the sky."

So we do that .. even though you predict we will forget to put the tiles back 
in the box and the next time we go to play we won't be able to find them.  I 
know you are right .. but it seems that the tiles have been promised a night 
out.  I can't go back on my word now.

We fold up the quilt.

"Do you think it's time for bed?" I ask

"but of course" 
