Dear Darcy:

found this in my drafts pile …. I have no idea when I wrote it, or if I sent 
it to you already … but thought I would forward it on to you….. 

I’ve been read to this evening by my son, we’ve had lots of time to discuss 
a variety of things and my mind is reeling (he loves math and insists on trying 
to educate me about calculus) and will make my way to bed.

Apologies if you have already received this …

k

Dear Darcy:

I spent a delightful half hour this morning with the “Added Touch” 
catalogue.  I have no idea why I am on their mailing list, but every quarter I 
get their offering.  There are so many things in this world I positively 
don’t need.  Here are some of the them:  English mince pies – air sealed, 
holiday slipper socks, Santa workshop figurine, snowman making kit, vintage key 
bottle opener, leather book weight, Dorset bell hat, leather wine bag holder, 
patent red oversize shoulder bag, two tone cashmere gloves, magnetic levitating 
globe (my favourite), table top golf game, electric plate warmer, Scotty dog 
doorstop, real Irish peat bricks, black dress jewelry hanger, shower clock 
radio, over the door cat hook.  In fact, there is nothing in the whole 
catalogue that I would want.  Nothing.  But I really enjoy the fantasy of what 
I would DO with all that stuff if I had it.  ARE there people who have so 
little imagination that they have to order a plastic carrot and a vinyl top hat 
to make a snowman?  How many rude things can I think of to do with a plastic 
carrot?   (Darcy – take your mind OUT of that gutter!!).  Do I really need to 
know what time it is and to hear the news and the morning show when I’m in 
the shower?  And if Russell Bowers is in my shower with me every morning, HOW 
will I look him in the eye next time he comes to Terrace?

Then, on my way to work, I started thinking about the things I would like … a 
sports bra that really worked, perfect pitch, comfortable cfm boots/shoes, the 
ability to lengthen or shorten the numbers of hours per day at will (whoever 
decided there should be only 24 hours in a day wasn’t a theatre person), to 
travel and have traveled , a self cleaning floor – HELL – a self cleaning 
house, two sisters who would talk to each other, an hour glass figure – or at 
least a waist, a whole bunch of newly discovered novels by Jane Austen, this 
problem in my shoulder to heal itself, a magic spell to keep all those I love 
safe and healthy, a train trip through Siberia and China, an unlimited number 
of well written social history books,  really the list is endless.

I’m reading a book on the history of Impotence right now.  I heard the author 
interviewed on CBC this summer and immediately ordered the book.  It’s a 
fascinating topic, but he’s a rather dry writer.  He also has one on the 
history of fertility, but I think, if I read it, it will be from the library. 
….  The subject is incredible, the writing style isn’t.

I’m steeling myself to go out and look for clothes at the local thrift store. 
 I am a firm believer in wearing recycled clothes.  The trouble is, I’ll end 
up at the hospital auxiliary store.  It is always a trying time, because the 
women who work there, although extremely pleasant, pretend that they are not 
really running a shop.  At first they seem to assume that you dropped in, just 
too late, for tea, and you see them surreptitiously trying to finish their own 
drinks without making you feel left out.  Then, if you ask for anything, they 
listen with a bemused and rather panicky expression, and, even though you 
clearly tell them you are there to find a sweater, they will return time and 
time again with hopeful looks on their faces and thrust a series of bizarre 
things at you…. Socks stuffed made to look like reindeer, old lady corsets, 
definitely chewed children’s toys, ice skates.    When they finally 
understand that you are looking for clothes, they walk around you – loudly 
listing your figure flaws, disappear for a while, and, just as you get to the 
change room with your arms full of garments, appear with another bunch which 
they pile on top of your, already teetering stack.  Most of the things they 
choose for you are WAY too big, and are all designed for people at least 40 
years your senior.  My best strategy so far, has been to enter behind another 
customer and quickly duck into the children’s section, then to slyly weave my 
way to the women’s clothes without being noticed.  That way I can usually 
flip through the majority of the tops before they notice me.  If that doesn’t 
work I make my way to the lingerie section and start picking up the sheerest 
nighties I can find … and asking them if THIS ONE would suit me.  But I hate 
to do that… they always look so distressed as they struggle to be kind and 
yet honest. 

Whoops, I just looked at the time, and I have to get myself to the gym.  I’ll 
finish this tonight or tomorrow.  Hope you are having a good day.

 





