Adult Education Offerings .. Fall 2015

Coffee Cups 101  (CoCu 101)

It is well known that global warming, the demise of indigenous languages and 
decreasing of bee populations are directly linked to improper sized and shaped 
coffee cups; mostly those used in North American homes by uncaring consumers.  
Over 6 fascinating weeks, CC 101 will instruct the student in the proper 
selection, storage and cleaning of coffee cups.  Advanced students will be 
allowed to USE their coffee cups.  Note:  Students need at least an A- grade to 
progress to Cereal Bowl Selection 201 (offered in Spring 2016).

Saving Neighbourhood Outdoor Biospheres  (SNOB 121) 

Do you sometimes visit homes or missions where there are gardens?  Do you 
notice the squalor of the untended row of carrots, or the unclipped ornamental 
shrubs?  SNOB 121 is the course for you.  Using the power of positive thinking 
and great looking gardening clothes, SNOB 121 will instruct the student on how 
to make All Things Right In the Garden in merely 90 minutes.  All tools 
provided.  Note:  please be sure to wear loose garments as students will be 
lead through a 1.5 hour session on proper stretching techniques before actually 
heading to the garden. (This course is a one time, three hour session)

Korrect Kitchen Kontraptions  (KKK 240)

Why are some kitchen contraptions (microwaves) BAD, while others (coffee 
grinders) good?  When does a spatula become more than a kitchen tool and 
transform into a political statement?  KKK 240 will address this age old debate 
using the works of  Aristotle, Plato, Nietzsche, Descartes, and Kant. Does the 
repeated consumption of microwaved food contribute to Nihilism in our society?  
Was Plato's devotion to his mushroom brush a sign of advanced thinking or 
merely a  rhetorical device designed to quell his students?  Could Descartes' 
ideas have spread throughout Europe without the introduction of the garlic 
press?   University credited course (3)

Deck  Approaches to Food  Temerity  (DAFT 300)

Formerly call "Feeding the 5000", this simple, 6 hour class teaches you all you 
need to know to grow enough vegetables to feed yourself and all your neighbours 
8 months of the year using only a few containers on your veranda.  Special 
attention is given to ensuring your containers not only have food for "the 
5000" but also enrich lives through their fragrance and colour combinations.   
Note: Gardening gloves provided to all students so there is no need to get 
one's hands dirty.

Advice Giving Over Numerous Years (AGONY 400)

Do you have friends who do everything wrong?  Are they blind to the errors of 
their ways and do they continue to live life their own way?  Do they REALLY 
NEED your Good Advice?  AGONY 400 is a step by step course designed to set your 
friends straight.  Over this 8 week course the student will, through role play 
and observation, learn the following skills:  The ingenious question, the 
insightful comment, the Story With A Meaning, the disquieting look, the subtle 
put down (and when to move from the subtle to the straight forward put down), 
the helpless look, the sense of entitlement, the ponderous comment.   Note: 
Students who excel in AGONY 400 will be encouraged to enrol in ANGST 500, a 
course which takes AGONY 400 skills and helps the student hone them while 
exploring foreign countries or when visiting friends in their vacation homes. 





