I had meant to sit down and write to you .. but somehow ... the images of 
the elementary band retreat kept surfacing in my head ... so I've written about 
that.

I WILL answer you, promise, but some things just demand to be written and they 
won't be pushed aside.

k


Just off 6 straight days of 10 - 12 hour days ... so today and tomorrow are my 
"weekend". It actually sounds worse than it is ... as, in those long days I do 
have down time ... but I AM at work for those hours. Three presentations by an 
inspirational speaker (those guys always leave me cold), dance rehearsals, a 
two day elementary band retreat, an entire school at the theatre for the day 
... not hard gigs, but long and finicky ones.

However, today is an off day, and, I SHOULD be washing and waxing my hard wood 
floors. What I did do was meet a friend for lunch and helped another to concoct 
a 1920's style cocktail hat (some dress up party she is attending) - so it is a 
day of play!

Elementary band retreat

.... day one - pandemonium with students and cases and workshop leaders in the 
wrong classes or levels. Large instruments and stands everywhere, kids falling 
over the dark cases left in stairwells. My ice packs (usually purchased for 
dancers) in demand. Teachers requesting paper, markers, pens, pencils - all of 
which they forgot - and indignantly inquiring why I don't have a photo-copier. 
We do this every year .. you would think we would get better at it!

..... night one ... the Caledonia Senior Band and Jazz Band: efficient, 
proficient, musical, plays to the elementary band kids who talk through most of 
the show.

......day two - all students in theatre. Grade 7's get called by instrument to 
go to another building. Gr. 6's get called by instrument on to the stage... at 
the end there are an amazing number of students who didn't hear that the 
flutes/trombones/clarinets, etc had been called and have to think about what 
grade they are in.

squeaking and practicing all morning

lunch and teen dance at noon

bands switch places with the Gr. 7's now at the theatre

squeaking and practicing all afternoon.

brief respite.

Evening concert of Gr 6 and 7 students.

Impressions....

Theatre is packed by beaming and proud parents.

As the first row of Grade 6 band students begins filing into their seats on 
stage, I watch one grade six boy blow his nose in the elbow of his white shirt 
while another drags the crook of his trombone across the floor, and a sweet but 
very nervous female clarinetist drops a trail of music sheets from a loosely 
held binder.

The first concert B flat is intensely out of tune.. and so… instead of 
listening to the music, which for some reason is excruciatingly painful this go 
around, I study
the various students.

One boy must either be suffering from Turrets, or a form of nerve or 
psychological damage. He keeps flinching and jerking his body, head, and all 
facial muscles in severe shudders and erratic motions while he is playing. I 
can't imagine why he would want to have a trumpet in front of him. Every time 
he blows, his face turns flaming red and he lunges towards the mouthpiece with 
a vengeance befitting a starving carnivore. His puffed cheeks waffle in and out 
as erratically as his fingers flash across the valve keys and it appears as if 
he is having an orgasmic sneezing fit. Yet, when he isn't playing, in between 
numbers, he sits quite relaxed and oblivious to any of his previous movements.

In the back there is a young oriental boy who must be a fan of some obscure 
rock group, as he has a hair style that could only be described as a cross 
between a Rastafarian drug lord and an early, early cave dweller. As he pounds 
out his very interesting opinion of what might be the rhythm of the group, his 
head… well, hair mass actually.... bobs and weaves a pattern that is 
otherworld synchronized and has nothing to do with the tail-dotted notes (or 
the conductor) in front of him. Even his foot timing is from another genre or 
tempo and seem brilliantly independent of any local authority.

In the front row of the Grade 7 band, an abundantly endowed female flutist, 
short a couple of buttons on her already overstressed blouse, holds the captive 
gaze of a very skinny bass saxophone player seated two chairs to her left. The 
boy is so enthralled with her upper torso that, although his head and body face 
the music stand in front of him, his eyes betray the real objects of his 
imagination. It is fascinating to see him fake his fingering while the band 
plays on.

I tell you ... watching is sometimes SO much easier than listening!

My downfall is always at the end. I'm so bad at lying, and when parents come up 
to me and say "weren't they wonderful!" my lame reply is always "yes, they 
really are something! And think how they'll sound in a few years!" (which is 
true .. our junior highs have very good, in tune bands, and I would listen to 
our senior high band all evening with pleasure.)

.... I don't know how they do it, though I suspect that they lock all the young 
musicians in a room, throw them a hunk of meat every now and then, and only let 
them out when they learn to listen and tune.

Right off to have a nap - I'm really tired today! This cold is dragging me down!

k




