A friend of mine sent the title “Between the Lines” to a bunch of her 
buddies, and asked them all to write a paragraph with that title.  She wanted 
to see what different kinds of writing would be elicited (although she didn’t 
tell us that at the time).  Here’s mine - just so you have something silly to 
read when you are tired of holding up your book.

k

Between the Lines

Lines can be dangerous.  Be they the lines on a roadway, the lines formed by 
the strings of a guitar, or the lines designated by the parallel edges of a 
dining room table, lines can bring you harm. Actually, it is in the space 
between the lines that you must be most careful for it is between lines that 
imps of misfortune tend to dally.  Lines, for no known reason, serve as an 
alluring enticement to all imps.  If you happen, as you cross the street on the 
crosswalk, to step on the toes of an imp, it will most likely be the "Imp of 
failing automobile brakes" and the next time you cross, you must be very much 
on your guard. The "Imp of broken strings" elects to linger between the high A 
and B strings of the harp while the "Imp of misplayed notes" fancies the black 
keys of the piano keyboard. We all know that newly laid or washed hardwood 
floors are the ones most likely to bring trauma to the unsuspecting walker.  
This is because new or cleaned boards, without scratches or dirt, are almost 
addictive to imps.  As you walk across the floor, the "Imp of very hot, spilled 
coffee" will trip you as the "Imp of unfortunately timed broken limbs" causes 
you to land in the most irritating and disastrous way possible.  The only 
solution is to avoid the spaces between the lines as much as you can.  If you 
have a round dining room table, polish it to your heart's delight, but if your 
table is square or rectangular, you must be content with merely brushing off 
the worst of the crumbs.  Otherwise, you may anger the "Imp of embarrassing 
noises which happen in the middle of a very important dinner party" with 
disastrous results.  When walking on the sidewalk, ignore your mother's back 
and boldly jump from crack to crack.  That way you will not annoy the "Imp of 
runaway skateboards with riders about the crash into you" and you may avoid the 
"Imp of breaking an ankle when you had just popped down to the local corner 
store for a carton of milk" altogether.  Play it safe; remember to keep out 
from between the lines.
