Some years ago, a large tree fell over on my mother's property here on 
Mudge, revealing a full human skeleton.  Such things are not uncommon here, as 
the island was used by First Nations people for centuries.  My mother's place 
is situated on a large midden, and whenever we dig, we find shells, black dirt, 
animal bones and broken bits of tools that have been discarded.  The Goostry's 
place was situated on a long abandoned burial ground, and whenever they 
enlarged their gardens they would dig up skeletons which would be quietly moved 
to another place and re-buried. (whenever one finds these things you are 
supposed to report them, but then you would NEVER get any projects done, so we 
prefer to let them be).

My parents, surveying the skeleton from under the tree, and looking at the size 
and age of the tree, knew that the skeleton had been there for a long time, and 
re-buried the bones.  For some reason, the lower jawbone was lost until the 
burial was done and, since that time, has sat on an upper shelf in my mother's 
place.

It was the object of a very interesting talk today.

My sister, her husband and her friend, Barbara are here for a visit.  Barbara 
is an archeologist, sometimes a forensic archeologist.  She and Ingrid went to 
school together, and I have also known her since we were teens.  We had all 
lost touch, but when Ingrid and Barbara re-united it was at Barbara's place.  
She was apparently in the midst of burying a series of pig carcasses, in 
various places, as she had been hired by the RCMP to do a basic course in how 
to identify long dead bodies, and she was planting the "evidence" which they 
would uncover in some weeks.  An interesting gal, our Barbara.

My day was spent with Ingrid and Barbara.  As this was her first trip to the 
island we wanted to show her around.  First we watered gardens and picked beans 
and did all chores.  Then we walked to Davidson Bay, and I told them of the 
tour I had of Mr. Davidson's house this year, of the ghost, Stanley, and the 
story of "what John found in the attic" - all things I plan to write of when I 
have the time.

We wandered on to "Moot Point" where the Goostry's have their cabin, and then 
headed the Mudge/Link Island bridge via the beach.

While we were walking I complained that I had never, EVER found an artifact, 
though I had been with people who had very often.

"What are you saying?" asked Barb, "this place is riddled with artifacts" and 
she promptly bent down and picked up a striking stone, a shaping stone and a 
series of knife tips that had been broken.  Great to have the eye.

We walked the Mudge/Link bridge and decided to walk Link Island to show Barb 
"hole in the wall" - the hole that was blasted by Brother 12 and his followers 
on Decoursy Island many years ago.   As usual, we took a series of wrong turns 
and walked along the wrong rock ledges and had to double back, but finally made 
it to the other end of Link where we dangled our toes in the water, gazed at 
"the hole", watched the turkey vultures on Decoursy and talked before heading 
back to Mom's via the rock ledges, the land bridge between the islands, and 
then the road and the well (Barbara's dog, Zack, needed a drink).

After a late lunch we brought out the artifacts that we have found and mom has 
collected over the years.  It was amazing.  Two of the pieces which I thought 
were spear heads are actually a form of knives and are anywhere from 3000 to 
6000 years old.  We also have some more modern knives and arrowheads, some 
anywhere from 1000 to 3000 years old, some younger.  We have some fish weights, 
but some of the weights are not fish, but loom weights.  Something we thought 
was a scraper, is actually just petrified whalebone with marks of a stone 
cutting tool on it.  We have a lamp, and a "bowl" probably used to mix 
ingredients for painting.  Also a perfectly round stone which people think was 
used to play a game similar to bocci.

But the most interesting thing was the lower jaw.  It is amazing what one can 
know from a piece of bone with teeth in it.

Barb declared it to be the jaw of a male (there are "points" on female jaws and 
"u"'s on male jaws).  A very large man (it hadn't occurred to me until she 
mentioned it, that he must been very large).  Probably healthy - the teeth 
showed no signs of bad nutrition.  Probably between 25 - 35 years old (the 
wisdom tooth had come through but the wear pattern was slight compared to the 
wear pattern of the other teeth).

Barb declared it to be pre-contact so - pre 1700 - which she could tell by the 
wear patterns on the teeth.  Apparently, after contact, the diet of First 
Nation's people changed rapidly.  She said it could be anywhere from 300 to 800 
years old, but she would have to see the type of soil it had been in to be any 
more specific.   When she talked with mom who described the soil colour and the 
things that had also been preserved, she suggested it was probably about 500 
years old.   So a very interesting afternoon.

Barb is the person the police in the mainland call when someone is planting a 
cedar hedge and turns up a skeleton.  If it is old, she takes charge of it, 
usually contacting the correct First Nations community who take the body and 
bury it again.  If it is new, she does the preliminaries with them, then turns 
the case over to people with a more forensic background.

I had picked up a shell during our walk which cut some of my toes quiet badly, 
so I decided not to go on another exploration with the gals, but walked back to 
my place.  The Abbotsford air show is on this weekend and the snowbirds are in 
Naniamo.  They were scheduled to put on a small show over the Nanaimo harbour.  
Most of Mudge residents went to Dodds Narrows to watch, but G and I made 
ourselves Caesars and took chairs out to Scotts dock.  We sat and drank and 
watched the planes roar over us, but mostly over Nanaimo, for an hour before 
heading back home to make tomato sandwiches for dinner.  Mom's tomatoes are so 
big that one slice will fill a sandwich easily. Add a bit of fresh corn and it 
was a true summer supper.

Tomorrow I have everyone over for dinner.  Sponge cake is made, along with my 
"whatever is in the fridge" fruit topping - this time made with Mudge plums and 
apples, and store bought peaches, blueberries and ginger simmered with sugar 
and limejuice.  Add large amounts of brandy and cream to make it perfect.  
Chicken is marinating with olives, capers, wine, olive oil, garlic, lemon and 
dried apricots.  Neighbour Shirley wasn't in today, so I had to creep in and 
steal some of her basil, cilantro, baby carrots and baby beets (normally I 
would just ask her if I could thin bits of her garden for her) so I have the 
basics of a salad. Tomorrow I shall pick fresh lettuce and beans to round 
things out.

Time for bed.

k



