When ever she looked at the stove top sandwich maker a tear clouded her eye.

500 words.



Dear Bill:

Are you still collecting stories about crossing the boarder?  Do you take 
stories from nameless people?  

I have never told the people who were affected by this first story the real 
truth and, as my mother and her friends listen to you everyday – I would be 
discovered.  The second story reveals in itself, why I don’t want my name 
used.

BUT, if you will accept a story with no attached name – I would like to 
submit two … use them if you think them fit.

Story number one:

I was raised in a small town near the border, here on the West Coast – and my 
friends and I would often slip across the border to Point Roberts.

On a particular Sunday I was driving my mother’s vehicle, I forget why, when 
my friends and I decided to cross the border and indulge in a few drinks.  We 
set off, three loud and laughing young women, playing loud music and being 
generally brash and probably rather irritating.    

That semester I was taking a course at university entitled “Socialism, 
Liberalism and Conservatism in the Nineteenth Century” and my textbooks lay 
in the back seat of the car.  It must have been the “socialism” section of 
the course because the books included writings by Marx other leftist writers.

At the Peace Arch border, the guard caught sight of the books and pulled us out 
of the line while he ran a check on the car – which must have included 
running the license plate through a computer.  Finally he informed us that we 
were “undesirable aliens” and would not be allowed into the USA.  

We had a good laugh at this silly incident, did something else that afternoon 
and forgot about the whole incident.  I know I never mentioned it at home.  

A few weeks later, my mother returned home looking worried and perplexed.  She 
had tried to go across the border to visit Blaine (there was some sort of white 
sale on) and had been turned away from the border.   The border guard had not 
answered any of her questions, but had merely turned her away.  

I am sure that her license plate was entered into some vast data bank and had 
come up as a suspected Communist.   I never told her that I was to blame.
  
Story number two:

Some years ago, I had fell into a rather interesting group of friends who were 
great partygoers.  One weekend a number of us traveled down to Seattle for a 
wild time.  There were six of us going down, but we lost people over the 
weekend and only three of us traveled back the following Monday.

We were all rather worse for wear.  

My boyfriend was driving and his brother, who had a tremendous hangover, was 
sprawled in the back seat in a semi-stupor with both rear windows rolled down.  
 It was only when we were in line at the border that I thought to ask my 
traveling companion if they were carrying any questionable substances.

Brother nodded and patted his pockets. 

“Are you crazy?” I hissed, “We have to get out of line and get rid of 
it.”

At almost exactly that point a border guard strolled over to us.  We must have 
look suspicious, because he asked us to get out of the car and put his hand 
forward as if to open the back door. 

And brother threw up, all down the outside of the car.  

With a gesture of disgust, we were directed across the border.  


Please feel free to use these stories – but no names please.


Sadgoat.ca

