So I'm at the gym the other day and I hear someone say "well, he thinks 
outside the box"
and I think .... "box?   There is a box?"
and then I chastise myself because, of course there is a box .... and to think 
one doesn't have one is the worst form of self flattery.
We all have boxes, but,  unlike apple boxes or Chinese take out boxes, ours 
have their own particular shape and size, designed and changed by our 
experiences.
Mine, for example, has a concave wall when it comes to watching sports.  The 
"watching sports" part of my box is not just indented, that part is positively 
crumpled because I cannot envision any real joy that could possibly come from 
watching men, dressed in special costumes, jumping around on each other or 
running after balls and pucks.  It is a complete failure of my imagination.
Perhaps our boxes are amorphous and have the ability to transform, grow and 
become what they never were.  

Perhaps box is much too small a word.  

Perhaps we don't have boxes, perhaps we have houses, with innumerable and 
constantly growing rooms, shifting and changing as needed.  They grow to be 
monstrous dancing chambers or shrink to be tiny cabinets, depending on the need 
and use we demand for certain ideas and concepts.
One of my favourite reoccurring dreams features me wandering through a vast 
house, through multifarious rooms, and designating each room to be something 
specific.  "In this room I will sleep, so I can wake up to the glorious view", 
"this will be my reading poetry room, and I will cover the walls in dark blue 
velvet with bits of glitter so they will be as soft and shiny as the words", 
"this will be the "sulking" room, and I will withdraw here when I'm feeling 
grumpy.  I will put bad velvet paintings and LP records on the puce yellow 
walls so the room can mirror my mood", "in this turret I will place a grand 
piano and send music through the windows to the ocean and the mountains", "this 
will be my ugly room and I will fill it with only the worst of furniture and 
cutesie ornaments.  When I am angry I will go here - to see what I can become 
if I remain angry."
How much more exciting to have a "house of the mind" ... where new ideas and 
concepts enlarge and mold the structure every day.  How vast and interesting 
our houses would be .. think of the joy in running up and down the many 
staircases and  secret tunnels which would weave through such a structure.
When a pen pal used the word "amygdala" the other day I had to look it up, and 
there, on a bright and shimmery side of my house, popped out a little lean-to 
structure, just barely connected to my house.  Within the pen pal's brain, I 
think, are rooms and rooms filled with glittery amygdala, which fire and dance 
when faced with certain stimuli.  Usually calm and undemanding, they lurk 
quietly, hiding their luster under a cloak of dull red, but jump to attention 
when they are called upon.  When needed they stretch and clamber for a beat, 
and then rise, arching and languorous, allowing the polished and captivating 
rhinestones of their structure to fire as desired.   When the amygdala are 
working, let no woman stand in their way, they dally with no one, their purpose 
is clear.  As I become more familiar with amygdala - perhaps my lean-to will 
migrate into the house proper and take a more permanent place?
And so, with a slight sentence, a friend from across the world has chiseled my 
model and added a charming word, an amusing image, and a new bit of information 
to my brain. 
   

