Happy Belated Birthday, Bruce:

I’m late; I’m always late.

Deborah sent her message in plenty of time for anyone who was the least bit 
organized to be able to fulfill the task with time to spare. But the cosmos has 
decreed that being late is part of the “way of life” in my world. (I have a 
theory that if and when I ever turn up to three social events in a row on time 
AND have all the laundry done at once it will be a sign that the world is about 
to end).

So the two constants in my world are:
Karla is always late (except for work - which would be unforgivable) and
If Hell has really good coffee, Karla will be drawn through its gates no matter 
what the cost.

But this letter should be about you and your birthday.

So FIFTY years old!! At one time it seemed impossible right? But we’ve both 
arrived at this date, and, if you are like me, you are amazed at how much you 
don’t know and how much you still feel as if you are 20. But 50 is a good 
age. Children are, for the most part, over the difficult baby/child age and 
into the exciting and scintillating teen years or beyond. We are more 
comfortable with who we are. In fact - at 50 - the best people (and you ARE one 
of the best) should have a large party thrown for them - by 50 of their closest 
friends - and they should be crowned King/Queen of Fucking Everything!

Part of the reason that this letter has come so late is that I have had such a 
GOOD time remembering times with you and browsing through old photo albums. I 
feel that those Kitimat years were golden. Perhaps it was because I was newly 
married and starting a new life, perhaps because it was a dream job, but I 
think it was mostly because of the amazing and wonderful people who were part 
of our lives in those days. You and Dolores being the most valued and loved.

There were all those times of creative comradeship. Wow, I didn’t know how 
lucky I was to have someone like you to work with. You made all that tech stuff 
seem easy and possible.

I think of the “Charlie Brown” episode … where you graciously accepted 
being drafted as an actor and did a fantastic performance.

I remember Christmases and Easters, film nights and parties galore.

I recall the drama festivals in Kitimat or around the region.

I think of flying to Victoria, driving to Kelowna (?) Penticton (?), and all 
the time being immersed in a feeling of excitement and creativity.

I bask in the memory of the many regular dinners and games evenings.

I want to acknowledge your ability to accomplish so much while making everyone 
around you enjoy themselves and feel special.

I laugh at the flamingos - a story we still love to tell.

I revel in the friendship that lasted into the summers. I still can’t walk 
over parts of Link Island without seeing you and Dolores leaping along the 
shoals.

When I mow the lawn at Mudge I remember you working with us to clear a path to 
the beach so we could actually SEE the way the land lay and make decisions 
about building.

And although we don’t write or talk much (by the way, did I EVER acknowledge 
that lovely message you sent re: Canadian Gothic? I can’t remember - 
obviously a sign that I’m over 50) - we do keep our eye on you through 
looking at the Langara site. Every once in a while I check to see if there are 
more pictures of you on the net - but there is always only the one.

You have obviously built an amazing and happy life for yourself with Deborah 
and the children, with your many interests and your incredible job. Your name 
pops up in conversation every once in a while, when traveling artist or techs 
come through the Lee.

If there was ever a person who deserved to be happy and content, it is you. I 
am SO lucky to have been part of your life all those years ago, and I have 
nothing but good thoughts and wishes for you.

Happy Belated Birthday, Bruce,

All the best to you.

with love and many memories

Karla





