So this is an education.  I am at the bus depot waiting to go to Vancouver 
and have three and a half hours yet to wait.  So far I have regretfully 
informed three young men that I don't smoke and have then heard some of their 
life stories.  I have also heard the three of them find each other, 
commiserate that none of them can afford smokes and heard that they are all 
just out of some kind of detention centers.  They then had a great time 
comparing centers ...some are vacations, others 'bust your ass'.

One of them has been using a cell phone a lot and when another suggested that 
his bill would be high, he told the first that it wasn't his, and he wouldn't 
be paying.  I'm not sure if that means it is stolen or something else.

I note that when they speak to me only every third word is a swear word.  When 
they speak to each other the percentage goes up a lot, so at least they are 
trying for an old lady.

One of them is planning on not following his probation dictates as that would 
'interfere with my fucking life, you know'.  When I suggested that this action 
might mean that more of his life was 'interfered with' he just shrugged.

Now a new bus has arrived and there is much rejoicing, cries of delight and 
people crying  'yo bro'.  And 'sic dude'.  The word 'fuck' figures 
prominently in many conversations around here.

There is a woman looking for 'someone from south Africa' and an old guy who 
tells me he shows up to the bus depot a few times a week 'for something to 
do'.  My blurt factor seems to be on high today, much as I try not to meet 
people's eyes they seem to see me, sit down next to me and start up a 
conversation.

I always think that the class system in Canada is pretty negligible, but places 
like this just remind me that I don't often hang out in areas where you see a 
difference.

I am rather dirty and smoky, though, so I do fit right in.

Right, a guy with a disgusting cold has just sat down near me and is sneezing 
wildly and another guy is singing loudly in falsetto...I think I'll head off to 
Starbucks for a bit. 
