I thought I would send you this locally produced calendar - as it has a lot 
of my favourite places in it.

Jan:
is on the road between Terrace and Prince Rupert.  It’s pretty much the 
perfect “this is what our roads in winter  are like” shot.  I love the 
drive to Rupert - Skeena River on your left, beautiful mountains on your right. 
 It’s great in all seasons.

Feb:
There’s a certain restaurant with this view in Prince Rupert … though 
normally there are large ships in the harbour.  One birthday I was by myself in 
Rupert - waiting to catch the ferry back to Haida Gwaii.  I took myself out to 
dinner in the restaurant and watched the sunset, just like this one.

March 
We lived in Masset on Haida Gwaii (also the Queen Charlotte Islands) for 3 
years.  We watched many a pole being carved - and liked to drop into the 
carvers’ tent in all weathers with tea and biscuits.  I don’t know Tim 
Boyko but this is a very familiar scene for me.

April :
is dull

May:
I have sat on this bench and watched gray whales for hours.  I love this spot.

June:
okay

July:
The years on the Charlottes were interesting.  When we had a strong NE wind - 
not often - the waves would throw up scallops on the beach - and we would hear 
the word “Scallop tide”.  The whole town would shut down and everyone would 
go to this beach and pick huge scallops off the sand and take them home for 
dinner.

Claming was an experience that happened often.  I’m not fond of razor clams, 
but I often went out with others and helped them get some for their families.

August:
There is a B and B in Rupert that looks right at this area.  Sometimes we go 
there for the weekend in the early spring, and we spend the whole weekend in 
the room, doing a jig saw puzzle, reading, talking, walking.  It’s always 
rainy and cold outside and warm and comfy inside.  

Sept.
This is Lakelse Lake - where we go swim in the summer and where the whole 
community turns out to skate in the winter.  I don’t really like the shot - 
but it’s familiar.  I’ve probably sent pictures from this very area of me 
in the water and others on the ice.

Oct/Nov/Dec:
Eagles are very prevalent here - and I like the view of tow hill WITH tide, as 
opposed to the claming photo with low tide.

You don’t often see wolves so this was a very lucky shot.  I’ve only seen, 
maybe 12 or 13 in the 20 years I’ve lived in the Northwest.


