I met Carolyn Marcotte at Langley Secondary School, on the first day of my 6 
week SFU teaching practicum.

A past student of the school, I knew many of the teachers who were soon to be 
my colleagues and, quite frankly, I wasn't thrilled about the man who had been 
assigned as my sponsor teacher.  Still, I dutifully dressed in my best 
"conservative" clothes, put on a brave face and walked into the school .. only 
to meet Carolyn who shook my hand and said "I'm Carolyn Marcotte, I'll be your 
sponsor for this term, and I think you will be a wonderful and dynamic teacher."

I fell in love.

I wasn't to know until years later that my SFU assigned teacher had been as 
reticent about taking me as his student as I had been to accept him.  The 
morning that I was to arrive, Carolyn took pity on the man and said "don't 
worry, I'll take her".  She was not prepared for me, she had not thought of 
taking on the work of a teaching student, and yet she made me feel welcome.  

It was my lucky day.

Watching Carolyn teach made me understand the impact and importance of positive 
re-reinforcement, clear thinking and humor.    With her guidance, I branched 
out to teach vocal jazz, acting, and Western Civilization.  She wouldn't allow 
me to rely on my B.A. in History, she knew the difficulty in finding a 
position, she pushed me to expand and to follow my passions.  

At SFU, when other student teachers would complain about their sponsors, I had 
to stay silent.  What could I complain about?  Who else had a sponsor teacher 
who took her home every evening, put her in the hot tub, gave her a glass of 
wine and started the day's debriefing.

"Now", Carolyn would say, "the 100 things you did well today were ..." and she 
would compliment me on the tiny steps I was making towards being a teacher.

"The three things I want you to focus on tomorrow", she continued, "are..." and 
she would gently guide me through the worst of my faults".  She was so 
skillful, I didn't realize she was modeling for me.

That finished, she would say "Okay, let's have dinner, and then I'll send you 
home, you have work to do."  She would ply me with delicious salads, barbequed 
delights, and fresh fruits, and I would go home to work at my lesson plans.

When I accepted my first teaching job in Prince George Carolyn said "teaching 
is a difficult job.  Be sure you have a beautiful, calm place to come home to." 
  I was grateful for those words as, in the first year of teaching, it 
sometimes takes you until Christmas to find your desk.  I loved my beautiful 
apartment, with the fireplace, and from my comfy couch, I would call Carolyn to 
ask her how to deal with specific situations.  She was always helpful and gave 
me so much of her time.

She became much more than a mentor .. and for years I have considered her to be 
a friend and sister.

She gave the "speech to the couple" at my wedding, listened to my sobs over the 
difficult "baby" years, and, when my son had serious health issues, repeatedly 
picked us up from the airport and took us to Children's Hospital for his 
treatment before taking us back to her home and keeping our spirits up during 
our many doctor appointments.

Though we have not lived in the same town or even region in the last 30 years, 
we see each other every year, and we laugh and talk and enjoy life together now 
as much as when we were in our 20's.

Carolyn is a wise, funny, giving woman.  She has been one of the most important 
people in my life .. guiding me through the difficulties, rejoicing at the 
successes and always being her wise, loving self.

I cannot think of a better friend.  She is my role model, my sister, my friend 
and my  confidant.  I am so sorry that I am not there tonight to join in the 
tribute to this amazing woman.  I hope you all laugh until your sides hurt.

Happy retirement, Carolyn.  
