Dear friends:

We have an old cat, named Pumpkin.

He’s rather an accomplished cat and has trained us well.

For example, every morning he appears at the balcony door, is let in, and goes 
immediately to his treat box as he KNOWS he is entitled to treats for the mere 
act of walking into the house.

Some days he then disappears into the basement to go out the cat door and 
re-appears at the balcony door to be let in and goes to his treat box.

He is rather disturbed that his rather dense humans haven’t grasped the 
concept that he should be given treats each and every time he enters the house.

When Sandy was home, they had a ritual.

Pumpkin would walk up to Sandy, who was usually at his computer, scratch him, 
and then, go either to the treat box or to the basement. The treat box meant 
“I want a treat” - the basement meant “I don’t like the food you gave 
me, open a different can”.

As an older and rather stupider adult, I have not been as trainable as Sandy 
was.

When Pumpkin walks up to me and scratches me, I tend to yelp, grab him and 
unceremoniously toss him outside (the cat door is one way only, ever since an 
un-neutered cat got in and decided to leave his mark).

Last night, after we went through our “scratch, yelp, grab, toss, slam 
door” routine, I went back to my chair and was happily reading until I heard 
a THUMP against the window.

Pumpkin, tired of being ignored at the balcony door, had determined which room 
I was in, and had decided to get my attention by launching himself at the 
window.

I let him in
We went through the no treat thing.
I went back to reading.
We went through our “scratch, yelp, grab, toss, slam door” routine.
I went back to reading.

Thump, the window positively seemed to shake.

“No,” I thought, “that cat is not going to set the agenda. I shall just 
ignore him.”

Thump …..


thump …..


thump…..


Then

… silence

Squeak …

The cat, either deliberately or through a mistaken calculation, didn’t hit 
the window with much force, but you could hear his claws sliding down the 
window.

The evening continued with a series of squeaks and thumps throughout the next 
30 minutes, after which I gave up, let the cat in and went to bed.

Although the cat didn’t get a treat it was a hollow victory.

I didn’t really read during those 30 minutes; I sat there, posed with my 
book, waiting for the next sound to infiltrate the room. What made it 
absolutely ridiculous is I was sitting there pretending to read … pretending 
because the CAT might see me.

The world is obviously a crazy place when one worries how one stands in a 
cat’s estimation.

I thought I lived with the two most tenacious men in the world, but they are 
mere amateurs next to the cat.

Hope you have a great day.

k
