
You see ...

Story 1

Once upon a time we had two bad cats ... 

no I have to go back farther.

Story 1 - revised

Once upon a time I was living in Masset and was washing the floor one day when 
I heard a knock on the door.

There was a young girl there with two kittens in a basket.  If she couldn't 
find a  home for them, she told me, her parents were going to kill them.

So we got a male (orange) - Fidel, and a female (calico) - Che.  

They were bad cats.  

My theory about the animals on the Charlottes is the gene pool is so small that 
all the inbreeding has produced terrible animals.

Fidel we didn't have long.  He went out one day and never returned.

Che was pissy from the very first day.  She did things her way .. loved to 
ascend and would go up any ladder we left anywhere .. then demand to be 
rescued.  She loved to climb and on her visits to Mudge would go into trees 
and hang out with the raccoons.  She burned out at least 3 motors of the 
automatic cat door because she liked to sit on the opening device and just have 
her nose out the door; she was perfectly house trained, but when she was 
displeased with us, she would pee in the house. She wasn't fun to have around a 
Christmas tree.

Anyway, every year she would travel to Mudge with us.

When we were building this place many things needed to be finished, and the 
stairs were my job.  I locked the cats out of the house that day, because I 
didn't want them under my feet.  I explained to them they had to be patient; 
 they seemed to understand.  In fact I remember Che settling down on the deck 
outside, on a small step ladder.  I had just sanded and Varithained the stairs 
and was heading outside to get a drink when Che slipped in the open door and, 
seeing the steep stairs, ran up them.

I couldn't, of course, go up after her, because my footprints would be on  the 
steps as well.

I settled for placing a ladder from the lower to the upper deck and opening the 
top sliding door.  I knew  that cat couldn't resist a ladder  .... pretty 
soon she was on the ladder and I could grab her and put her somewhere safe 
until the varnish dried.  But her paw prints are still with us.

Story 2

After we lost Fidel we acquired Lord Denning.

LD was Ingrid's cat, but when she realized that Katie was allergic to cats, LD 
was fostered to us.

At the time Ingrid and Robert were also living in Masset.

Ingrid arrived one day, with Denning in his cat basket.  Though she lived only 
about 3 blocks away, she drove as she didn't want Denning coming home.  We 
brought him into the house, introduced  him to Che and let him out of the 
basket.  

For three days I kept Denning inside.

He was content the first day, suspicious the second day and on the third day 
would wail plaintively and scratch at the windows.

On the night of the third day - actually probably the early morning of the 
fourth day, Denning woke us up by climbing the curtains in the bedroom and 
wailing piteously.  We showed him his food dish, his water dish, his cat 
litter box, but he refused to be comforted.  We were not allowed to pick him 
up .. he just ran from window to window and climbed the curtains.

Finally in desperation and irritation, I opened the window and the 
cat leaped out, into the darkness.  

I called Ingrid the next morning to tell her - but we saw and heard no more of 
Denning for 2 days.

I was feeling so very guilty!

Then, Ingrid arrived at my house, with Denning in the car.  

Apparently he had arrived home that morning, very cocky and happy with himself.

Ingrid wouldn't let him in the house.  She merely put him in the car and 
brought him back.

This time Denning decided to stay.  I kept him in for 2 more days but he 
seemed content.  After that he came and went and then used the cat door all 
the time and never darkened Ingrid's door again.  In fact, he wouldn't speak 
to her.  Wouldn't let her pet  him very often and seldom went to her.  He 
was a good cat until the day he died, of a good old age.  His only bad point 
was his amazing ability to catch birds .. even humming birds, as he could leap 
high and quickly.

We have Lord Denning's paw print in the cement near the workshop, but I can't 
remember the exact circumstances of that story so will not relay it.

Story 3

Denning had been a Vancouver cat.

Every year when we drove down it was a three day slog

First day .. cats would be excited (Che would throw up ... about 30 minutes 
into any trip ... it got so I would have newspaper at my feet and would hold 
 her in my lap until the fateful time).   

The second day they would go manic for the first half of the day. They didn't 
like their "in car" litter box, and they would ricochet around the car until 
we would vow, once again to NEXT YEAR go to the vet and get cat sleeping pills

Half way through the second day they would get lethargic.  It was as if they 
knew they were in hell and were resigned to being in the car forever

but

when we approached Vancouver .. and got on into the city Denning would perk up. 
 He would roam the car and meow.  I always suspected that it smelled of home 
to him.  I was worried that, if we ever let  him out, he would find his way 
back to Ingrid and Robert's home on Fraser Street where he had been a kitten.

But we never let them out of the car when travelling .. not after the time I 
had to crawl under a semi in the line up for the ferry and pull Denning out by 
the tail.  We were both spitting and we didn't talk to each other for days 
after that episode.

Anyway .. as I came across the paw print I thought "there is a short story in 
this somewhere".  And there is . but not these ramblings

hugs to all


