almanac

I grew up in Langley.  My family raised pigs, had a large garden, and a haying 
field.  My one consistent dream as  teenager was to move to Vancouver and 
become a city person.

The dearth of teaching jobs in the lower mainland forced me to accept a 
position in Prince George and marriage took me to Masset on the Queen Charlotte 
Islands.  It was there I realized that life in Langley, with all it's lovely 
livestock and green hills was only a pretension of rural life.  Life in Masset 
was rural, really rural.  

Masset presented to me a reality which at first seemed to be surreal.  Firstly 
there were a colourful set of characters like something out of a Laurie Lee 
novel.  Old Sid who's jacket had florescent tape attached to it, so those in 
the village could find him when he went wandering at night, Mrs. Johnny who 
made a garden from wild plants she dug out of old homestead gardens, the little 
circle of Chechs who played jazz banjo and clarinet,  the Walker, who would 
silently join you as you walked in the woods and then just as silently 
disappear, David who grew basil in his sauna and met the sea planes every day 
when they came into the harbour, and a host of others.

Then there was the thriving first nations community with a host of traditions 
and a way of doing things very different from my own.  In my three years in 
Masset I picked cranberries,  dug spruce roots, watched a totem pole raising, 
attended many potlatches, dried and smoked fish, sat in drumming circles, 
whipped soap berries, and I came to realize that none of this was picturesque 
or done for show.  There was no tourism element involved.  This was just what 
people here did.

I came to appreciate the convenience of using only a one speed bike to get 
around, and the fact that a poster placed on the bulletin board in front of the 
post office would ensure that everyone in town would know about your project.  
I liked walking into the bank and having the tellers punch up my account number 
from memory, before I even reached the counter.

But the thing that was most difficult was island time.  I had never been in a 
place where everyone was so slow.  Tellers, grocery check out people, post 
office workers, everyone was slow.  It was not poor service, it was politeness. 
 One did not just get groceries, one asked the cashier how her sore arm was, if 
her grandchild had recovered from her ear infection or if the last batch of 
fish had turned out well.  Every transaction was an interaction and took time.  
When we were having friends over for a 7:00 dinner, we invited them for 6:30, 
and  knew  there was a good chance they would not arrive by seven.

I remember my first month in Masset, seething while waiting in line at the 
Co-op.  The three people ahead of me seemed to take forever to get their few 
groceries.   I would mutter under my breath, sigh deeply, fidget, all to no 
avail.

In my third year on the Charlottes I was at the Co-op having a friendly 
conversation with Emily, the cashier.  Behind me was a man in his twenties.  He 
was muttering, sighing, shifting impatiently, while Emily and I were discussing 
the birth of a girl which had happened the night before.  Finally the man 
behind me spoke up,
"I'm going to miss my plane"
I turned to him politely and asked "have you already checked in?"
"yeah"
"Well" I said kindly, "they'll wait for you, don't worry" and I turned back to 
my conversation.

It was then that I realized, I had finally become a truly rural person.  That 
the difference in rural and urban communities is best understood by the use of 
time.  

I have now lived in northwestern BC for 16 years.  I still enjoy visiting the 
city, but I feel that I have made the transition, and will be a ruralite for 
the rest of my days.




