Casting Char
(with thanks to Char for the ideas stolen from her)

Dear Bill:

My friend Char can be described un-cast-able.  I can't imagine how to place her 
in any play - there's so much of her and she never falls into a type ..... 

Firstly there are her looks -  something out of a Celtic fairy tale;  milk 
white skin, flame red hair, trim, compact body and funky spectacles .  That's 
the charm of Char, you see, she systematically breaks the rules.  With that 
skin and that hair,  (which she models after Farrah Fawcett) and that body, you 
would cast her in the role of the romantic ingénue, sort of a "Lady of 
Shallot"   type.  The kind of maid of whom knights would catch a glimpse in the 
mist, then spend a life time searching for one more glance.

But there are those spectacles.  They slide down her nose so she can look over 
them to great advantage.  At times she also looks under them.  Those spectacles 
move her from the maiden category to the maiden aunt or "Aunt Polly"  section 
of casting.

She's certainly not Aunt Polly when it comes to work.  Aunt Polly, you 
remember, believed that  work was necessary for the good of the soul.  
Personally I have never seen Char work.  When we were co-workers she would sit 
staring into space for a good amount of time and then pounce on her computer 
and produce a perfectly polished and erudite letter or proposal.  Not for Char 
the groaning and first, second and fifteenth drafts, not for Char the inability 
to know how to start.  In writing, she's swift and decisive, she knows what she 
wants and how to get it.  In writing she's a dame.  

Dames, you'll recall, are snappy dressers.  They have small, hard features, 
wear tight fitting suits and little pillbox hats.  They usually carry small 
irritating dogs.  And they ALWAYS have a smart answer to any question or 
comment.   Char might fit here.  Although I've never seen her close to a 
pillbox hat and she prefers cats to dogs,  she never lacks a witty and precise 
thing to say.  She can listen to the most pompous bore blather on and on, and 
then sum up his speech in one keen, short observation.  Her edge, however, 
isn't hard and sharp, like a dame's;  she's more supple.   Her insights fall 
charmingly, they don't hit one on the head.  She's more generous than a dame, 
more like a gal .....

Gals are friendly, open and kind.  They are fresh faced and anxious to help.  
Char gives her time, energy, and more importantly her ideas and intellect  to 
the local women's centre.  She was the impetuous for the most successful 
International Women's Day we've ever had.  Her ideas and her commitment bring 
freshness into the centre.  Her enthusiasm  and innovations challenge and 
support women in the feminist movement.  But are gals are feminist?  Probably 
not ... they're too nice ... and Char though gentle and charming, never falls 
into the tyranny of "nice".

Could Char be a chick?  Cuddly and warm, giggly and, ...... no we won't even go 
there.

Maybe she's a babe.  A  magnet for lust and longing.  Most certainly.  With the 
hair and skin of a maiden, a touch of make-up - but wait - wasn't there that 
wedding she attended wearing black nylons over unshaven legs?  Black background 
with a soft, rosy fur?  Most un-babe-like behaviour.

Perhaps we have to move forward in time - Char as the super woman, able to 
handle everything in her life and have a life too.  Well, she certainly 
demonstrates her ability to raise a child, keep a husband, write a monthly 
column, be published in prestigious publications, not to mention, win literary 
prizes.  But super women live in million dollar homes which are always tidy and 
filled with artistically arranged flowers and sculptures.  After the birth of 
her child I volunteered to come over and clean her kitchen, even wash the 
floor, as a gesture of solidarity with a new mother.  Most new mothers, even 
super women, would jump at the opportunity to have housework done.  Not Char.  
Somehow, in the space of five minutes I found myself sitting with her at the 
table, gin and tonic in hand.  Besides, super women aren't artistic.

We may have to cast Char in that nebulous category "Artiste".  Dragon maker, 
bookshelf painter, framer of photocopied heads, shed artist, garden bench 
conjurer,  Char sees her entire house as a canvas and routinely uses it to make 
her organic life statement.  She writes poetry which touches  the soul of even 
those who find such stuff unapproachable.  The image of a woman in her kitchen, 
head cocked to listen for a plane, will never leave this poetry challenged 
listener.  But Char doesn't have the "artiste" persona.  There is no mystery 
here.  Clothes, though worn inside out, are not chosen to impress or 
intimidate.  Char's artistry is not for the select chosen, in fact her 
aesthetic door is constantly opened with a large welcome mat in place.  No she 
wouldn't read as an "artiste".

It may be that we must admit defeat and cast Char as the "character actor", 
that genre which is the class for the unclassifiable.  Not maid, not gal, not 
chick or babe, not dame, not super woman, not maiden aunt or even artiste.  Our 
friend Char, ambiguity in the flesh.


