Dear Michael:

I hope you are surviving your accident and things are on the mend.  I hope you 
soon get a heat wave.  We've been having one ourselves here ... after all, the 
temperatures have been a little bit above freezing (if you don't count the 
wind) and the ice on the sidewalks has mostly melted.  Yesterday I walked to 
work with only gloves, head band, boots, warm scarf and spring coat over my 
work clothes.  Winter coat, extra layers and hat stayed at home.

So I CERTAINLY know what it is to deal with unseasonably warm weather.  I was 
looking at last year's weather, and we had 47 inches of snow last January ... 
here we are ... almost through the month and the little snow we've had this 
year is almost gone.   Anyway, we are coping, and I hope you are too.

Just thinking about the email re: Chaucer I sent to you the other day.

I now feel that the key to reading Chaucer is to read it in translation.  For 
some strange reason, when I was a snooty university student, I decided one had 
to read him in middle English, and took several courses on the subject, then 
beavered my way through a large part of it.  I don't think the understanding 
got any better, but I will say that the harsh and guttural sounds of middle 
English (sounds like middle earth) are lots of fun to pronounce, especially 
when you've had a bit to drink.  There is nothing like sitting in a university 
pub and reading aloud from the prologue,  hitting all the k's which would now 
be silent, uttering harsh glottals, and spinning out one's diphthongs.  Ah, the 
fun of youth!  The fact that one felt the NEED to quaff at the same time made 
everything better.

Then, I was in the musical "The Canterbury Tales" twice.  (hence the references 
to the songs).   Once as Alison (she who gets her bottom kissed) and Molly (she 
who frolics in bed with the students) and once as the Wife of Bath .... which 
was fun as I got to climb over all the men in the cast, one way or another.  I 
do like playing bawdy or evil women.  The ingenue was always boring to play and 
I was heartily glad when I got too old to be one (though I have to admit, I'm 
not the ingenue type .. they tend to be thin, tall and wispy).  
Right, have to learn the French words for "Oh Canada" which we are apparently 
singing when the Olympic torch comes through our region.  How much do I care 
about the Olympics?  On a scale of 10, about -23, but as a new member of the 
chorus, I have to toe the line.  I shall put on my sequins, sparkles and false 
eyelashes and be enthusiastic (the flame torch song which we are also singing 
really sucks too).

have a great day.

k


