


I was thinking today that, as a child, I was very aware that there were things 
that you could but did not want to do as an adult.  That, when one got to be a 
certain age you didn't have mittens with strings on them, you could lick all 
the batter your wanted off the electric beaters but didn't, you had no need to 
watch batman and drool over Robin.  

I remember being curious about these things.  

Adults could make a whole batch of cookie dough and eat it without baking a 
single cookie, but they didn't.

Adults didn't seem to lust for Popsicles, or for shiny shoes that made tapping 
sounds as you walked.  Adults didn't sew jingle bells on their skirts at 
Christmas time, or stay up particularly late just because, or lurk outside in 
the dark playing kick the can, or own a whole bunch of horses which they could 
ride any time they pleased.

Adults did chores; they had jobs.  They were responsible. 

I remember wondering if this was going to be a slow process or if one just woke 
up one morning without all those childlike longings  that plagued most of 
us.  

We did have a few "childish" adults in the family ... but they were a source of 
irritation and embarrassment to the rest of the adults.  

My Aunt Hilda, who had a child out of wedlock, married, divorced, then had a 
string of gigolos all her life.  This was bad enough, but when she also went 
to a hairdresser every week to have her hair washed and set, kept changing the 
colour .. from midnight black to platinum blonde, lived in a penthouse and 
drove a white Cadillac convertible she was considered beyond the pale.  Only 
the fact that she was my father's older sister kept her in the family.  

My Grandma Zahn ... who would drink whiskey and smoke cigars and sing 
sentimental songs much to her daughters' dismay.  

I adored these women, but was aware that the rest of my very proper and 
Calvinist family barely tolerated them.  You kept the adult rules or you were 
strange.

I've been thinking of that a lot these days.  

Getting the house painted has meant nose to the grindstone .. interminable 
painting when I have been longing to be out in the water or in a kayak.  
Having guests has made me a responsible host as opposed to a hedonist 
retiree.  

Part of me rages against these activities.  Part of me sulks and fumes and 
feels constrained by the things that are expected, or by the expectations I put 
on myself.

But

Part of me really likes it too.

There is something satisfying in seeing your work come together.  In finishing 
the last coat of a colour, in deciding which part of the job you will tackle 
today.  There is a languorous feeling in muscles used just a little beyond 
their capabilities and slightly too long.

And I have to say that I have enjoyed each and every guest we have had over the 
summer.  That laughing, talking and playing with them has brought me intense 
pleasure.

Talking with mom this evening I asked her if she ever has such longings, or had 
them as an adult.  To throw up responsibilities and be a child again.

She pondered a while and said "no, I don't think so.  I mean, I was often 
tired or irritated but I didn't want to be a child again."

Sometimes I think I'll never grow up!


