
I was hanging up the Christmas cards yesterday when I was suddenly flooded with 
a memory; the childhood dread of Christmas cards and Christmas thank you 
letters.

As children we were expected to write thank you cards in the week after 
Christmas.  I was always bad at it.  Not only do I have abysmal hand writing, 
but I never knew what to say.  Once one has written:

 "Dear Aunt Hilda:  Thank you very much for the red turtle neck sweater"

 what more was there?  

My mother always said "let them know what you have been up to" so I would write:

 "Dear Aunt Hilda:  Thank you very much for the red turtle neck sweater.  I 
have been playing the piano a lot and I am in grade 3.  Yours truly"
I think it was in Grade 3 that my mother introduced the idea of sending 
Christmas cards before Christmas as well as the dreaded thank you notes 
after.  This put me in a quandary; if I wrote about the piano and the grade in 
the Christmas card, what else could I put into the thank you letter?  It 
seemed most unfair.
In addition, I didn't see the point in sending a Christmas card to Aunt Hilda, 
whom I would see over the holidays and was quite put out that I wasn't allowed 
to send Christmas cards to those people who really needed them.
I wanted to send a Christmas card to God, because I thought he should be 
acknowledged for doing a really good job of making the world.  I also thought 
Jesus needed a card, because I felt sorry for him that he was born on Christmas 
(I wasn't a deep thinker) and one to Santa Clause because it is always a wise 
idea to be on his good side.  

I wasn't too sure about the existence of God and Jesus really, (no matter how 
much I prayed I never got a horse, Debbie Zentner continued to pick on me at 
school and my hair could not have been described as "long dark tresses" which 
meant I could never be a heroine) but I did have empirical evidence about the 
existence of Santa .. after all the cookies disappeared and he always left a 
note.  (The handwriting was very much like my mother's but she explained this 
by saying that all people of older generations had been taught the Macleans 
method of handwriting so they all wrote the same way). 
But mostly, I wanted to send a card to the devil.  I thought that Christmas 
must be a really terrible time of year for him.  All those people like my dad, 
who never went to church, would suddenly make an appearance at Sunday School 
concerts and on Christmas Eve, the airwaves would be flooded with religious 
music and there would be music everywhere (I have always had the suspicion that 
music made the devil uncomfortable because it made people so happy).  I didn't 
want to write "better luck next time" because I didn't want him to win, but I 
did want to acknowledge that it must be hard to be universally known as a loser.
There was a tinge of self interest as well.  As a child I was convinced I 
would end up in hell (except that maybe the music might nudge me towards 
heaven) so if I wrote a card to the devil in this life, he might be more 
inclined to go easy on me in the next.
Some years ago I gave myself the Christmas gift on not writing Christmas cards 
or letters until January.  Now I notice that my Christmas Letter often doesn't 
get out until May or doesn't get out at all.
Anyway, this is just to say I hope you have much pleasanter memories of cards 
than me and that you have a fantastic Christmas.

much love 
