
The whining about Christmas has begun, i.e.  pen pals are complaining about 
the upcoming holidays.
My response to my friend Griff (who tells me they are having SUCH a cold winter 
on the Canary Islands that he actually had to put a shirt on to eat lunch 
outside yesterday)  who is having to go home to England for Christmas this 
year ...

Well, at the family Christmas dinner you could make yourself a bingo card .. a 
private one, and cross things off as they happen. 
On the bingo card you can put anything you want but here's a sampling:
Child is given noisy toy
Elderly relative misunderstands quote from popular culture
Very bad wine or home made Bailey's is served
There is a complaint about the Brussels sprouts
There is a defense of Brussels Sprouts 
Someone is given socks or underwear as a "gift"
There are many put downs made of those who leave the country for warm climates.
Someone's spouse hold forth on their extreme right wing (or left wing) beliefs
A fun activity is vetoed by a grumpy aunt or uncle
Someone makes snarky remarks about how and what you drink
once you get a line crossed off you get to yell "BINGO" and then you and Jennie 
can leave and go get GOOD drink and have a quiet meal somewhere. Just a thought.
Yesterday we had our annual reading of "A Christmas Carol".  It was really 
quite lovely, all the more so because I wasn't at any of the organizing 
meetings, having been away.   But  .... I was pulled in to do what I do best, 
and that was to stage manage the event.
They chose fantastic readers this year, and the story was divided up into 6 
parts.  Between each "stave" there was very good music by the Aurora Wind 
Quartet (french horn, flute, clarinet and bass clarinet) which sounded 
beautiful in the candle lit room (and one that had a decent stage, good 
microphones, comfortable seating and was warm).
So at 2 p.m. I ran a quick rehearsal, went home to relax, was back at the venue 
by 6:15 and did last minute sound and lighting checks, then pretty much relaxed 
into the evening.  I did have to do a few lighting changes but they were so 
minute that hardly anyone noticed .. still, I do think it is a good thing to 
highlight whichever performer is "on" be it reader or musician.
We had a large, comfy chair with a good reading light placed on the stage and 
the readers moved into it, and read.  Very Christmasy.
I was home by 10 p.m., not being part of the clean up crew and the money raised 
is for the food bank so it is good feelings all round.
I've been reading a hilarious book entitled "the Atheist's Guide to Christmas" 
which is really a series of short stories and mock papers.  Sandy picked it up 
for me a few years ago and I put it away to be read during Christmas and 
completely forgot until this year.  
This is from a "speech" entitled "How to Understand Christmas: a Scientific 
Overview".
" Huge strides have been made in the last fifty years in understanding the 
intricate relationship between Christmas and nature.  Barsky's Chimney 
Hypothesis, too complex and difficult to go into here, or indeed anywhere, 
proved the missing piece of the puzzle when it came to discovering the 
evolutionary advantages gained by reindeer that spend part of the year on 
roofs."  

I laughed aloud!
Anyway, must do housework and clean.  Dina, Rod and the girls are coming over 
for dinner tonight.  I am making a Germanic feast ... Rouladin .. stuffed with 
bacon, onions, and some with pickles and/or stone ground mustard; German sweet 
and sour red cabbage; mashed potatoes (G insisted, I was going to make 
Kleisal  - a kind of German dumpling), buttered corn, pickled sweet beets.  
Dina is bringing cake, but knowing Dina's cakes, I've also thrown an apple 
crisp into the oven.   She sometimes brings a poor, under baked or crispy 
blackened thing to these events and then cheerfully throws it into the 
garbage.  I think she has to prove that she tried.  
If the cake turns out, we can always indulge in apple crisp for breakfast.

must go and clean the house.
hugs

