“Dreaming is, after all, a form of planning.”

What a lovely email to receive ... thank you very much.

I was just in the midst of writing to my sister about my day (she likes me to 
write short stories to her several times a week) - so I include it for you.  No 
need to respond to it... it's just a "stream of consciousness" type of story 
about my day.

happy dreaming!!!

k


Today I had planned to run the morning show on drinking and drugging and 
driving (which I didn't know I had until last week) then open the theatre to 
the festival ladies, then stay at work until I was ready for festival. Instead 
- during set up for the first show - the presenter mentions that he has a 
second show this afternoon!!!.  So there went today. I didn't mind too much, in 
the sense that, once you're set up, there's not much to do ... bar adjust mic 
and video levels and fiddle with a few lights and get 600+ students into and 
out of the theatre twice .. but the presenter was a high maintenance guy, and I 
had to spend a lot of time with him.  At a certain point of the strike, I 
figured out (I must be tired - usually I clue in quicker than I did today) that 
he was telling me all these stories because I was supposed to admire him ... so 
I switched into big eyed, "gee wiz" mode, let him tell me two more stories 
before firmly starting to unplug equipment and put things away.  He followed me 
around the theatre, telling more and more stories.  I finally eased him out the 
door and waved goodbye, crossed the parking lot to return the projector to the 
school, and when I got back at the theatre, found him at the front door.

He wanted to know how to get to the airport.

I take him into my office and draw him a map.

He invites me out for coffee.

I tell him I have a lot to do, but thank him very much and steer him to the 
best coffee place in town.

He leaves.

I do about 55 minutes of work then decide that I can't face anymore today so 
start home ... where I've got curry simmering in a crock pot and about 3 hours 
before I have to head out to the dry grad coffee house.

I remember that we're almost out of coffee so head, without thinking, to my 
favourite coffee place.

Guess who's there and who assumes I've changed my mind about having coffee with 
him?

Sometimes I can be SUCH a fool.

What could I do?  I had a coffee with him and heard a bunch more stories.   By 
the end of 30 more minutes my doe eyed look was getting pretty tired.  But I 
feel for the guy .. he's on the road 9 months a year, and gets lonely.  I was 
someone he could relax with .. I wasn't a funder, affiliated with a school, 
etc. etc.  So I'm glad I took the time, but, boy, I wish it hadn't been the day 
before festival starts.

k
