Complete Story


Angus Seaton (born 1912) – lumberman
>Francis Seaton (born 1910) – accountant
>Scott Harris Fulton (born 1908) – MP
>Hattie McDaniels (born 1902) – milliner / dressmaker
>Kitty Talstra (born 1919) – slightly soiled bar gal
>Big Bob (born 1910) – the bartender
>Angelica (born 1914) – librarian – and Sunday School teacher wannabe
>Emily Little (born 1912) – spinster
>Mrs. Rochester (born 1900) – mad woman who knows all
Frances sr. remittance man sent to the colonies because of a shameful past

Married Mary Margaret and lived in Victoria

Had two children Francis and Angus

Frances was artistic and sensitive and particularly attached to his mother
Too sickly to be sent away to school

Angus was short tempered and bull like very athletic and sent to his father’s 
alma mater which was Eton where he excelled at tennis

He was also expelled for an undisclosed reason

When Angus returned from England, he was known to be aggressive and to escape 
the stigma moved to Terrace where he ran a successful lumber business and 
founded Terrace’s first lawn tennis club. At the lawn club, he became a best 
friend with Big Bob Hull who was also interested in tennis.  A Sunday school 
wannabe Bob’s sister Angelica always attended the matches.  Angus uses only 
his father’s tennis racquet which gives him luck.

When the business thrived Angus sent for Francis to be his bookkeeper. 

The two men built a house intending to bring up their mother now widowed to 
live with them.  They had a hard time finding water and had to get two well 
witchers in. the second well witcher was named Winifred. She was also the local 
postmistress. She was a tall slender stately woman who wore almost exclusively 
pale blue.

Francis meets Emily Little, daughter of one of the most foremost family who 
also favors pale blue. . Meets her at a Riverboat days ball and is instantly 
smitten when she and her friend Angelica perform a yodeling duet.  Emily is 
immediately struck with Frances’ big city ways, and had always said she would 
never marry a man who had to work with his hands. Emily enters into an 
engagement with Francis.

Emily is very athletic and joins the lawn tennis club.  There she enters the 
mixed doubles tournament – playing with Bob and with Angus – until it is 
obvious that her style goes best with Angus.  Emily and Bob had been childhood 
sweethearts. 

Emily’s dearest friend is Angelica Hull, who has a passion for writing and 
yodeling.  Emily and Angelica are often called upon at socials to do yodeling 
duets.  They have been performing these since they were children.  Angelica’s 
other party trick is to be able to identify vast numbers of biblical passages 
when they are recited.  She once entered into a 6-hour marathon and correctly 
identified 679 biblical quotations.  He dearest wish is to be a Sunday School 
teacher and she has applied to the Church committee for a position as SS 
teacher.

Angelica’s other passion is writing, and she dreams of become the next Mrs. 
Raddlet.  She and Emily have spent many afternoons together, with Emily 
practicing her passion (taxidermy) while Angelica makes notes and writes 
chapters of her novels.  Angelica has used some of the experiences of watching 
Emily stuffing her animals in her novels.  With great secrecy she finishes a 
novel and sends it to a publisher by post – using a pseudonym, as some of the 
scenes are rather graphic.

Emily has a great fondness for Francis, but gradually comes to prefer his 
brother Angus particularly as Angus participates in monthly tennis tournaments. 
She likes a man in shorts.

Emily talks this dilemma over with Angelica – who had always hoped that Emily 
would marry her brother, Bob.

Angus is also smitten with Emily and throughout the one-year engagement of 
Emily and Francis, Angus and Emily found themselves thrown together a great 
deal, particularly at the monthly couple tennis matches.  After one particular 
rout of their enemies they throw themselves into each others arms in victory 
– and discover their mutual love.  When they travel to Atlin to attend a 
northwest tennis tournament they enter into a love affair.  Francis being 
sickly can’t play.

When not on the tennis grounds, Angus and Emily meet outdoors at the new Seaton 
house – meeting in the back yard – as Francis, doesn’t often come to the 
house (it is being built) and doesn’t like the outdoors.

Winifred in her capacity as well witcher spends more and more time on the 
Seaton property looking for water and sees the developing affair between Angus 
and Emily.
She casts hints to Francis. Francis refuses to believe such a thing of his 
brother and fiancée 

Winifred blackmails both Angus and Emily about their affair.  They tell each 
other about the blackmail they are paying, but feel they must continue to pay, 
as they are both very fond of Francis and don’t want to hurt him. 

Emily becomes more and more distraught and is no longer able to join Angelica 
in their afternoon novel writing and taxidermy.  Angus spends more and more 
time at big bob’s bar.

When Angelica sends her novel to the publishers, Winifred, in her position of 
postmistress opens and reads it.  The raw scenes of animal dissection sicken 
her, and are, she feels, revealing.  She writes to Angelica threatening to 
reveal the novel with all its graphic scenes to the Sunday School committee if 
she does not pay her a weekly sum.  Angelica pays at first, but, knowing that 
she will not be able to continue paying, withdraws her name from the list of 
Sunday School teacher contenders, fearing the shame of revelation.

Also living in the town is Scott Harris Fulton, brother of Winifred.  Scott was 
a vastly unpopular child. He was a bully and a snitch, a man of little brain 
and high libido.  He has always had bad breath and political aspirations.  He 
is also a man of routine and regular habits. As the only male child, Scott 
inherited the modest estate when their parents, much to Winifred’s fury.

Scott aspires to become a politician and has run in many campaigns, locally, 
provincially and federally. He has lost every single election since high 
school. Thinking he would increase his chances of success, he has drawn up a 
list of all ladies in town who could help his political aspirations and has 
methodically proposed to each of them.  They have all refused his hand. When 
not running for office, he is the bylaw enforcement officer and dogcatcher for 
the city. 

His only opponent for this race is Big Bob. 

Bob Hull, only son of Robert Hull, founder of Hull and Husk, Barristers and 
Solicitors, did well in school, was called to the bar and started a successful 
career as a lawyer before deciding to go into politics.  The Hulls are a 
teetotal family, and, as such, Bob has never tasted alcohol in his life except 
for a small sip of communion wine once a month.  Bob plays tennis and the tuba 
for relaxation.

Bob is a wildly popular candidate even before he openly declares himself to be 
running for MP.  On the day he formally announced his candidacy, Bob spent the 
day campaigning ending the day at the moose lodge.  After he gives his campaign 
speech he drinks a copious amount of moose juice, which he does not know, 
contained alcohol. 

On his way home from the Moose Lodge, clutching a farewell jug of Moose Juice, 
which was pressed on him by the lodge members, Bob meets a sobbing girl – 
Kitty Talstra.  She informs him that she is about to go to the Skeena and throw 
herself in the river as she has just found out that she is penniless.

Kitty is the only child born of steamboat entrepreneur Edmund and Hilary 
Talstra.   Kitty’s mother, Hilary was the beauty of the family and married 
well. Hillary’s sister, Winifred always resented the fact that her sister was 
given every opportunity, while Winifred was pushed into the background.

When Kitty was only an infant, Edmund and Hilary had decided to test a 
steamboat by steaming down the Skeena to Prince Rupert’s sea fest days.    
Unfortunately they hit an enormous run of oolichans, which capsized the boat, 
and all hands went down with the boat. Kitty, although an heiress, was sent to 
live with her aunt Winifred, who was made her legal guardian. 

Winifred is a frugal miser who hated her sister for being a beauty and takes 
her revenge on her dead sister’s child.  Kitty in her childhood years was 
forced to eat only turnips and porridge, to sleep in a cellar, do all the 
housework and rub Winifred’s feet every evening after work.  In addition, as 
soon as she graduated from school she was forced to go to work at “Heavenly 
Hats and Delectable Dresses” and turn over all her earning to Winifred.  Her 
only solace is watching the Sunday tennis tournaments where she sometimes 
enters to play with Big Bob whom she adores even though it is unrequited and 
the knowledge that when she turned 25 she would have control over her 
inheritance.

Miss kitty’s 25 birthday falls on the same day that Bob has announced his 
candidacy.  Instead of a birthday party and a celebration, Winifred reveals 
that she has unwisely invested all the money and has lost it all.  She tells 
Kitty that she is a pauper and will have to be a shop girl all her life.  

Kitty, in desperation, leaves the house to fling herself in the Skeena and 
rejoin her parents. When she meets Big Bob he offers her moose juice and hears 
her story.   She pours out her heart to him under the moonlight. Big Bob tells 
her that what Winifred has done is illegal and promises to go to court for her.

As a gentleman, he walks her home to her front porch where they sit and rest a 
moment on the front porch and they fall asleep.

Winifred discovers the two on her front porch swing, sleeping, and devises a 
plan. She arrives at the family home (now Scott’s) with a proposal. She will 
ensure Scott is elected through acclamation if he agrees to sign over all their 
parent’s property.   He will not loose, she tells him, because he will have 
his MP salary plus the generous retirement package.  Scott, anxious to get 
elected, agrees and signs over the property on the spot.

Bob wakes up early the next morning, on the swing with Miss Kitty, with no 
recollection of what had happened the night before.   When he sees Winifred 
standing over him and accusing him of having had his way with her ward, and 
with an incredible headache (which he interprets as a sure sign of guilt) he is 
overcome with remorse.

Winifred suggests that he withdraw his name from the candidacy so her brother 
(Scott Harris Fulton) can be acclaimed the winner.  If he does so, she promises 
to ensure that Miss Kitty will never speak of his terrible sin.

Bob agrees, and goes off home but is racked with guilt with what he may or may 
not have done to Miss Kitty but he is too much the gentleman to ask.  Feeling 
that he is no longer ethical, he quits the law profession, opens a bar that is 
wildly successful.  This alienates him from his teetotal family 

When Kitty wakes up the next morning, she has a terrible hangover and Winifred 
tells her she and Big Bob has been up to something scandalous.  She threatens 
her with exposure – but assures her that, if she never darkens Winifred’s 
door again, the town will not know of her scandalous way.

Scott is elected through acclamation. As he is preparing to move to Ottawa, 
Winifred appears and threatens to expose the fact the Scott is no longer a 
property owner and therefore cannot hold office. She demands that he sign over 
his retirement package. Too late, much too late he sees her nefarious plot.  He 
signs over the retirement package to Winifred and is trying to save some money 
from this salary for his old age.  He currently rooms in town and visits Hattie 
every Friday at 8 PM.

Not wanting to let anyone in Terrace know of her forlorn state and worrying 
that she may be pregnant, Kitty finds a flophouse in Thornhill where there are 
insufficient washing facilities. She soon loses her job from Miss Hattie's and 
would have died a pauper’s death had not Big Bob offered her a job as a 
saloon gal.  Miss Kitty is so ashamed of the events that transpired she did not 
have the courage to ask him why he had not pursued her legal case. Bob 
doesn’t remember that he had promised miss kitty that he would take her case 
against Winifred to court.

After the acclamation of her brother as MP, Winifred stops by in the bar, and 
tells Bob that Miss Kitty was merely sleeping on the porch swing and Bob had 
done nothing to despoil her.  She taunts him about the fact that he has lost 
his profession, his candidacy, and his links to his family because of her.  

A Big Bob’s bar, during their evenings when business is slow, Bob and Kitty 
gradually tell each other the story of Winifred’s betrayal.  Bob, no longer a 
lawyer, cannot take Kitty’s case, and Kitty, now a slightly soiled bar gal, 
has no hope of re-establishing her position in society. 

One night after sampling the latest shipment of fine wine from the Okanogan, 
Kitty loosens her lips even more and confesses that  “ she could just kill 
Winifred”.  And Bob echoes the sentiment.  They spend some of their evenings 
together having wonderful fantasies about different ways to kill Winifred – 
but they never intend to carry out their plans.

Although Bob’s parents refuse to see him because of his association with 
spirits, his sister Angelica is reconciled with him.  He tells her of the 
terrible things Winifred has done to his life – and tells her of his murder 
fantasies.  Even though Angelica is able to come up with 39 biblical quotations 
against murder or vengeance, Bob still insists that he will retain his 
fantasies.

Miss Hattie, Kitty’s former employer is the owner of at “Heavenly Hats and 
Delectable Dresses” the only dressmaking shop in town.  She is a woman who 
had many beaus in her youth and she was once engaged to Edmund Talstra.  There 
was, however, a tragedy.   At the heritage days celebrations at heritage pack, 
Hattie who had been proclaimed Miss Terrace told everyone that she was going to 
wear a personally designed dress. It was silk lined chiffon and a vision of 
loveliness.  

Unbeknownst to her, Winifred, Terrace’s 17th princess (having come in last in 
the Miss Terrace Pageant) when helping her dress, snipped out the lining so 
that Hattie appeared in public wearing a wisp of see through chiffon. Edmund, 
mortified beyond belief broke the engagement, and married Hilary three weeks 
later.

Hattie making the best of bad situation turned to hat and dressmaking. However, 
as the depression deepened this part of the business was not enough and she 
turned to her evening talents where she continued to entertain the beaus of her 
youth. They always left a token of their esteem on her dresser.  When not 
entertaining suitors in the evening, Hattie continues to design her creations 
on her dressmaker dummy. 

With her added evening income, Hattie has been able to refuse to make dresses 
for Winifred. 

Hattie was delighted to receive the commission for making Emily’s wedding 
dress.  Emily has been in for several fittings of her wedding gown, with her 
maid of honour, Angelica.  The two girls, forgetting that Hattie was around 
during the fittings, have dropped allusions to the fact that Emily loves 
another. 
 
The towns knows what she does in the evening business, but generally turns a 
blind eye because she is the best and only dressmaker in town.  However, she 
does not often get invited out socially. 

The Seaton brothers decide to throw an open house party for all their friends 
in Terrace.  It will be an evening of yodeling duets, charades, and other party 
games. Everyone who is anyone in Terrace is invited.

Angus and Emily, stricken with guilt, decide to call off their affair.  Angus 
writes Emily, begging her to meet him one last time at the spruce tree during 
the height of the party.  He makes the mistake of sending it through the post 
office where it is steamed open and read by Winfred.

Winifred hints to Francis that that the two lovers will sneak out from the 
party and meet behind the spruce tree.  

Kitty, as a barmaid, is hired to hand out drinks and nibblies.  She arrives 
early to set up and help the Seaton boys prepare for the party. The Seaton boys 
show where the firewood out in the back and tell her one of her jobs is to keep 
the fireplace stoked. They also show her the wine supply in the basement. She 
is to keep the wine flowing upstairs.

8:00 p.m.
About an hour into the party – when almost everyone has arrived, Angelica, 
anxious to start the evening with a yodeling duet, searches for Emily but 
cannot find her.  She informs Francis that she “has looked everywhere for 
Emily, but she is no where to be found”

8:10 p.m.
Francis, thinking of Winifred’s hints, suggests that Angelica search the 
upstairs again and goes to the back yard to confront the lovers.  On his way 
out he sees Angus’s tennis racquet, which he has always hated.  He grabs it 
with the intention of smashing it in front of his brother’s face.

The evening is wet and foggy, Winifred hoping for more information is also in 
the back yard, and, not seeing the lovers, investigates further out by the 
spruce tree. 

Francis seeing the form of a woman dressed in pale blue makes the assumption 
that it is Emily and that she is waiting for Angus. In a fit of jealous rage, 
he hits her with the racquet. She instantly dies. 

Kitty, out in the back to get an arm full of kindling, hears a sound but 
decides not to investigate.  She goes back into the house.

8:15 p.m.
Dropping the tennis racquet, Francis goes indoors.  There, Angelica, having 
been unsuccessful at finding Emily, has started a game of charade.

Francis, wanting to look casual joins in.

8:20 p.m. 
Emily leaves by the front door and sneaks around the back.  She discovers 
Winifred’s body, and, thinking Angus has killed her, goes around to the front 
to re-enter the house.

8:25 p.m.
Angus leaves for their tryst by the back door.  He discovers Winifred’s body 
and instantly assumes that Emily did it.  He returns to the house to support 
her.

8:30 p.m.
Emily and Angus whisper to each other, both accusing the other of killing 
Winifred.  They then see Francis playing charades – something he has never 
done before.  They know he is upset but can’t ask if he is upset because he 
has discovered their affair or because he murdered Winifred for some unknown 
reason.  She is, after all, a blackmailer.

8:30 p.m.
Big Bob the night of the party is late arriving. He has a regular appointment 
with Hattie, who was never good at sums, helping her add up her receipts for 
the week.   He comes in the back way because he wants to have a pee and he 
knows that there is only one bathroom in the house. He stumbles across the 
body.  He has great night vision and he sees it is Winifred.

8:35 p.m.
Thinking that the killing Winifred fantasies have addled Kitty’s brain, he 
worries that Kitty has finally acted one of them out.  He enters the house 
through the back door, in search of Kitty.  He goes into the party passing 
Angelica on the way and looking very white.  He is so agitated that he does not 
even notice Angelica.

8:35 p.m.
After a particularly difficult charade, Angelica goes into the back yard for 
some air and runs into her brother Bob who is just arriving.  He looks very 
strange and goes by her without speaking.  Wandering in the back yard to cool 
off, Angelica discovers the body as she trips over the tennis racquet.  
Thinking that the racquet is Bob’s and remembering his terrible fantasies 
which stood up to all her biblical quotations, she picks up the racquet to 
bring it in.  Once inside the house she discovers it is covered with blood.

8:40 p.m.
Angelica slips down the stairs to the cellar where she meets Kitty who is 
getting more wine.  She shows Kitty the racquet and tells her that Winifred is 
lying dead outside.  Kitty laughs and says she is glad.  They both believe the 
tennis racquet is Bob’s and they conspire to hide it below the stairs.

8:45 p.m.
Scott arrives at the party late, partly because he likes to make an entrance, 
and partly because he has a regular visit with Hattie each Saturday night.  He 
is slightly later than usual, as Hattie had asked him to take her to the party 
and he had refused.

Seeing that the party is in the middle of a game of charades, he decides to 
wait in the back garden to ensure he is well received when he enters. He 
stumbles over Winifred’s body. 

Being a man of little brain and knowing the position she has put him in he 
assumes that everyone will think that he done it and that he will never get to 
Ottawa. He foregoes his entrance and slips into the game of charades and when 
people realize he is there, he announces he has been here for some time.

9:00 p.m.
Hattie arrives at the party.  She has asked both Bob and Scott to take her and 
they have both refused.  She has decided to turn up herself and pretend to be 
invited. 

Because she has not been to a social gathering of this kind for many years, she 
is nervous and slips in the back door and down the stairs to the cellar to 
compose herself.  She is sitting in the shadows when she hears Kitty and 
Angelica, two of her best customers, scrabbling about under the stairs.  They 
are talking about hiding a bloody tennis racquet.
She hears them talking about Bob, one of the few men who has been kind to her 
and something in the back yard. 

9:10 p.m.
She slips unnoticed out of the back door as the game of charades is getting 
more and more vocal, and notices a body in badly sewn dress. She knows it is 
Winifred and screams and faints.

9:15 p.m.
The game of charades falters as those in the house hear a scream.  The 
gentlemen investigate and find the body of Winifred.  They can see no murder 
weapon – although it is obvious that she was hit with an object.  

The case has remained unsolved until tonight.

 

 


Emily and Angus who are both late for their tryst both discover the body. They 
both think each other did it.  

When Emily and Angus return to the house they see a shaken and distraught 
Francis. They don’t know and can’t ask if he is upset because he has 
discovered their affair or because maybe because he did it.

At the party. Angelica notices that Emily is not herself, as she will not enter 
into her usual yodeling duet. During the crush of the party, ANGELICA goes into 
the back yard for some air and runs into her brother Bob is just arriving.  He 
looks very strange and goes by her without speaking.  She comes across the 
tennis racquet, thinks it is Bob’s, picks it up to brings it in and discovers 
it is covered with blood, Thinking the worst, that bob may have harmed someone 
in a alcoholic temper she hides it in the cellar with Miss Kitty’s help.


Emily breaks her engagement the spot and is an old maid for the rest of her 
life and takes sweet sherry for medicinal purposes the rest of her life, 
prescribed by a kindly old doctor.

Angus disappears into the forest up to Stewart and buries himself in his work. 
Francis, having buried Winifred,  where ????    never does find water.
And never again uses the services of the well witchers.




Abridged Story


Frances sr. remittance man sent to the colonies because of a shameful past

Married Mary Margaret and lived in Victoria

Had two children Frances and Angus

Frances was artistic and sensitive and particularly attached to his mother
Too sickly to be sent away to school

Angus was short tempered and bull like very athletic and sent to his father’s 
alma mater which was Eton where he excelled at tennis

He was also expelled for an undisclosed reason

When Angus returned from England, he went known to be aggressive and to escape 
the stigma moved to terrace where he ran a successful lumber business and 
founds Terrace’s first lawn tennis club. Angus uses only his father’s 
tennis racquet, which gives him luck.

When the business thrived he sent for Francis to be his bookkeeper. 

The two men built a house intending to bring up their mother now widowed to 
live with them.  They had a hard time finding water and had to get two well 
witchers in. the second well witcher was named Winifred. She was also the local 
postmistress. She was a tall slender stately woman who wore almost exclusively 
pale blue.

Francis meets Emily Little, daughter of one of the most foremost family who 
also favor pale blue. . Meets her at a RiverBoat days ball and is instantly 
smitten. Emily has great fondness for Francis, but prefers his elder brother 
Angus particularly as Angus participates in monthly tennis tournaments. She 
likes a man in shorts.
Reflecting that she could never marry a man who worked with his hands, she 
enters into an engagement with Francis.

Angus is also smitten with Emily and through out the one year engagement with 
Emily and Francis, angus and Emily found themselves thrown together a great 
deal particularly at the monthly couple tennis matches and enter into a love 
affair (carnal knowledge yes)
(Francis being sickly can’t play)
Emily becomes more and more distraught and Angus spends more and more time at 
big bob’s bar.

Winifred in her capacity as well witcher spends more and more time on the 
Seaton property looking for water and sees the developing affair between Angus 
and Emily.
She casts hints to Francis. Francis refuses to believe such a thing of his 
brother and fiancée 
She also blackmails Angus and Emily together to keep silent.

 After a particularly triumphant couples tennis match, Angus and Emily throw 
their arms around each other, fostering Francis’s suspicions. Winifred then 
convinces him that the two lovers will meet behind the spruce tree. 

 Francis grabbing the ever-present tennis heads out to confront the lovers. The 
evening is wet and foggy, Winifred hoping for more information is also out and 
not seeing the lovers investigates further out by the spruce tree. Francis 
seeing the form of a woman dressed in pale blue makes the assumption that it is 
Emily and that she is waiting for Angus. In a fit of jealous rage, he clouts 
her one. She instantly dies. Dropping the tennis racket, Francis goes indoors,

Emily and Angus who are both late for their tryst both discover the body. They 
both think each other did it.  

When Emily and Angus return to the house they see a shaken and distraught 
Francis. They don’t know and can’t ask if he is upset because he has 
discovered their affair or because maybe because he did it.
Emily breaks her engagement the spot and is an old maid for the rest of her 
life and takes sweet sherry for medicinal purposes the rest of her life, 
prescribed by a kindly old doctor.

Angus disappears into the forest up to Stewart and buries himself in his work. 
Francis, having buried Winifred,  where ????    never does find water.
And never again uses the services of the well witchers.

Emily Little Color Story


Emily Little was born in Terrace one of the most foremost families received a 
ladies upbringing, was particularly known for her taxidermy, yodeling, light 
sponge cakes, her strong right overhand serve.  Emily practices yodeling with 
her best friend Angelica the librarian, whose true vocation is to be a Sunday 
school teacher. From their childhood, the two women have spent hours yodeling. 
She has a series of suitors none of whom are good enough until she meets the 
Seaton brother who have the sophisticated Victoria and instantly falls for 
Francis because she likes reading novels with consumptive heroes. Gradually her 
attention turns to Angus because they have more in common. Emily and Angus are 
known as an unbeatable tennis couple, even travelling to Atlin to compete in 
the tennis finals. However, she wants to honors and continues her engagement to 
Francis. This fills Emily with guilt because she cannot stop meeting her true 
love Angus.  After one particularly sweaty tennis match, Emily and Angus become 
lovers. Emily and angus were taken aback when confronted by Winifred who 
demands money and free taxidermy Winifred’s demands grow until Emily and 
angus are not sure anymore if they can continue to pay. However, with 
Winifred’s untimely death, the blackmail ceases but Emily never again enjoys 
the carefree afternoons with angelica

Angelica


Was born in Terrace into a privileged family and always has a passion for 
arranging things in order. Her best party trick is to identify obscure passages 
from the bible.  Her best friend is Emily and the two of them whiled away many 
hours yodeling. Angelica spent also spent many hours writing novels while Emily 
stuffed her latest acquisition. A always had a secret wish that Emily would 
marry her brother bob the bartender. However with the arrival of the Seaton and 
Emily’s subsequent engagement to Francis her dearest wishes were dashed.
A always felt that bob would have had a better chance with Emily if he had not 
run a bar, but had followed his first love politics. Bob had indeed run for MP 
of the area but had suddenly withdrawn his name due to Winifred’ 
interference. When bob gave up his political aspiration, A saw her brother 
reduced to being an alcoholic bartender with no hope of ever marrying Emily. 
ANGELICA hated Winifred for what she had done to bob and also because Winifred 
had denied her dearest wish which was to become a Sunday school teacher. 
 Angelica sent off her latest novel which included graphic scenes of animal 
anatomy shocking the tender sensibilities of the publisher’s readers. 
Winifred having steamed open the letter from the publisher presenting the 
telltale excerpts threatened ANGELICA with the exposure of her novel to the 
Sunday school committee.
A. immediately withdrew her application to the committee giving no real reason 
to the 
Committee and languishes as a part time librarian. With Winifred’s death, 
ANGELICA hopes to establish herself as the Terrace’s best Sunday school 
teacher and at the breaking of the engagement of Emily to Francis is 
encouraging Bob to pursue Emily as he did in the past. 

Bob

Bartender bob, elder brother of A, raised in a tee total household to take over 
his father’s law firm, and in his leisure hours was a tremendous tennis 
player, was a tuba player for relaxation.  Had been an admirer of Emily Little 
since he was child. He always thought that he would be a lawyer and marry Emily 
little.  But got he interested politics. One evening after celebrating his 
candidacy for MP, he goes on a daylong campaign. and ends up at the moose lodge 
giving his campaign speech and copious amount of moose juice which he did not 
know contained alcohol.  He wakes up with Miss Kitty,  Miss Winifred’s 
ward,(star sales girl with Hattie).  with no recollection of what had happened 
the night before. 
 He wakes up and sees Winifred standing over him and an incredible headache 
which he interprets as a sure sign of guilt.  Instantly, he knows that there 
goes all his prospects. Miss Kitty is still genteelly snoring away. So Winifred 
suggests that he withdraw his name from the candidacy so her brother (Scott 
Harris Fulton) can be acclaimed the winner and she volunteers to ensure Miss 
Kitty never speak of this.
Bob agrees, and goes off home but is racked with guilt with what he may or may 
not have done to Miss Kitty but he is too much the gentleman to ask. He 
suddenly quits the profession, opens a bar that is wildly successful. Which 
alienates him from his teetotalling family 
After the acclamation of her brother’ as MP, Miss Winifred stops by in the 
bar, and reveals that Miss Kitty, her old boarder was merely sleeping on the 
porch swing. And Bob had done nothing to despoil her. Enraged, he orders her 
from the bar. 
When Miss Kitty becomes unemployed and in need although her very presence is a 
continuing nagging reminder of his unchivalrous behavours he hires her at a 
whopping wage. He doesn’t remember that he had promised miss kitty that he 
would take her case against Winifred to court.
During their evenings when business is slow, he eventually gets the whole story 
out of her about Winifred.   With his support, She gradually begins to realize 
that her poverty and position and lack of prospects are all due to Winifred. 
One night after sampling the latest shipment of fine wine from the Okanogan, 
Kitty loosens her lips even more and confesses that  “ she could just kill 
Winifred”.  And Bob pours out his broken law aspirations and confesses to 
kitty a mutual hatred.

 Big Bob the night of the party is late arriving. Because his regular 
appointment with Hattie.   He comes in the back way because he wants to have a 
pee and he knows that there is only one bathroom in the house. He stumbles 
across the body.  He has great night vision and he sees it is Winifred.
He goes into the party passing Angelica on the way and looking very white and 
looking for Miss Kitty whom he assumes has killed Winifred. He feels 
responsible for Miss Kitty.


Miss Kitty (the slightly soil bar room girl)

Kitty was an only child born in Terrace to steamboat entrepreneur Edmund and 
Hilary Talstra Angelica Winifred, Hilary and Scott are all siblings.  Hilary 
was the beauty of the family and married well. Edmund and Hilary decided to 
test new steamboats by steaming down the Skeena to Prince Rupert’s sea fest 
days.    Unfortunately they hit an enormous run of oolichans, which capsizes 
the boat, and all hands go down with the boat. Kitty now an heiress goes to 
live with Winifred who is made her legal guardian. Winifred is a frugal miser 
who hated her sister for being a beauty and takes her revenge on her dead 
sister’s child. 
She invests the entire fortune against her brother’s advice and loses it in 
black October in the 1929. She doesn’t reveal to Kitty until her 25th 
birthday last week when she was supposed to legally turn over 
The management of the estate to her ward.
Kitty in her childhood years was forced to eat only turnips and porridge to 
sleep in a cellar, do all the housework and Winifred’s feet ever evening 
after work.  In addition as soon as she graduated from school she was forced to 
go to work at Heavenly Hats and delectable dresses and turn over all her 
earning to Winifred.  Her only solace is watching the Sunday tennis tournaments 
where she sometimes enters to play with Big Bob whom she adores even though it 
is unrequited. She was fortified by the idea that one day she would get her 
estate back.
On miss kitty’s 25 birthday she learns that she is a pauper and will have to 
be a shop girl all her life.  In desperation she leaves the house to fling 
herself in the Skeena and rejoin her parents. She meets big bob on the way. He 
coming from the moose lodges offers her a drink from the quart jar and she 
pours out her heart to big bob under the moonlight. Big bob tells her this is 
illegal and promises to go to court for her, As a gentleman, he walks her home 
to her front porch where they sit and rest a moment on the front porch and they 
fall asleep.
When kitty wakes up the next morning, she has a terrible hangover and Winifred 
tells her she and big bob has been up to something scandalous and that she 
should never darken her door again. Not wanting to let anyone in Terrace know 
of her forlorn state, worrying that she may be pregnant, she finds a flophouse 
in Thornhill where there are insufficient washing facilities. She soon loses 
her job from Miss Hattie's and would have died a pauper’s death had not big 
bob offered her a job as a saloon gal.
Miss Kitty is so ashamed of the events that transpired she did not have the 
courage to ask him why he had not pursued her legal case.


On the night of the party, Kitty is hired to be the waitress. She arrives early 
to set up and help the Seaton boys prepare for the party. The Seaton boys show 
where the firewood out in the back and tell her one of her jobs is to keep the 
fireplace stoked. They also show her the wine supply in the basement. She is to 
keep the wine flowing upstairs.
   At some point in the evening when miss kitty is down in the basement yet 
again. Angelica runs into the cellar with the bloody tennis racquet only to 
bump Miss Kitty.  ANGELICA tells kitty that Winifred is lying dead outside and 
kitty shows no sign of remorse. They both believe the tennis racquet is bob’s 
and they conspire to hide it below the stairs.


Scott Harris Fulton

One of Winifred’s siblings, Scott like Winifred was a vastly unpopular child. 
He was a bully and a snitch,  a man of little brain and high libido.  Had bad 
breath and political aspirations.  He is a man of routine and regular habit
As the only male child, Scott inherited the modest estate when their parents, 
much to Winifred’s fury. He has lost every single election since high school. 
He is now is trying for MP. He is thinking that he must marry well to increase 
his chances of election/. He drew up a list of eligible women and in turn he 
proposed to and was turned down by all of them.

 When not running for office, he is the bylaw enforcement officer and 
dogcatcher for the city. His only opponent for this race is Big Bob. 
 
One evening, Winifred comes to the family home and makes a proposal. She will 
ensure Scott is elected through acclamation if he agrees to sign over all their 
parent’s property. Because he will get the MP plus the generous retirement 
package.  Scott not seeing why Winifred would help him out but anxious to get 
elected, agrees and signs over the property on the spot.
Bob bob and Scott is elected through acclamation. As he is preparing to move to 
Ottawa, Winifred appears and threatens to expose the fact the Scott is no 
longer a property owner and therefore cannot hold office. She demands that he 
sign over his retirement package. Too late, much too late he sees her nefarious 
plot.
He currently rooms in town and visits Hattie every Friday at 8 PM after Bob.
On the night of the party, Scott visits Hattie at his regular and Hattie asks 
Scott to take her to the party and he refuses. He arrives at the party and 
hears that they are playing charades. He decides to wait to ensure he is well 
received when he enters. He goes around the back to wait, and stumbles over 
Winifred’s body. Being a man of little brain and knowing the position she has 
put him in he assumes that everyone will think that he done it and that he will 
never get to Ottawa. He foregoes his entrance and slips into the game of 
charades and when people realize he is there, he announces he has been here for 
some time.



Hattie.

Very good looking older woman who had many beaus in her youth and had 
expectations of her choice of suitors.  The best beau was Edmund and he had 
proposed, they were engaged. At the heritage days celebrations at heritage 
pack, Hattie who had been proclaimed Miss Terrace told everyone that she was 
going to wear a personally designed dress. It was silk lined chiffon and a 
vision of loveliness.
Unbeknownst to her, Winifred helping her dress, snipped out the lining so that 
Hattie appeared in public wearing a wisp of see through chiffon. Edmund, 
mortified beyond belief then broke the engagement, and married Hilary three 
weeks later.
 Hattie making the best of bad situation turned to dressmaking. However, as the 
years went by this part of the business was not enough and she turned to her 
evening talents where she continued to entertain the beaus of her youth. They 
always left a token of their esteem on her dresser.
When not entertaining suitors in the evening, Hattie continues to design her 
creations on her dressmaker dummy. Angelica, who can’t sew worth a darn, 
gives all of her business to Hattie. Kitty who favors exotic headwear also give 
Hattie her custom. Winifred was a hated customer for many years. Hattie then 
got an offer from one of her ex suitors.  Delighted to be then refuse custom to 
Winfred and continue to make a comfortable living she began to entertain the 
beaus of her youth.
Hattie was delighted to receive the commission for making Emily’s wedding 
dress especially given the fact that neither Seaton boy was her evening 
visitors.  Emily has been in for several fittings of her wedding gown, and, 
speaking with ANGELICA, and forgetting that H. was around, has dropped 
allusions to the fact that she loves another. Hattie always has cherished a 
hatred for Winifred, having mortified her in public and lost her future 
aspirations. 
The towns knows what she does in the evening business, but generally turns a 
blind eye because she is the best and only dressmaker in town.
However, she does not often get invited out socially. On the night of the open 
house, she asks both bob and Scott to take her. They both refuse, so she 
decides to turn up herself and pretend to be invited. After Scott her last 
client of the evening, she hurriedly takes herself to the party. 
When she gets there, she decides to go to the cellar first to compose herself 
Kitty and Angelica her two best customers, hiding a bloody tennis racquet.
She hears them talking about bob and something in the back yard. She slips back 
a game of charades happening on the first floor and notices a body in badly 
sewn dress. She knows it is Winifred and screams and faints.


The Victim – Winifred Fulton – Postmistress and Well Witcher

The Place and Time – Terrace BC, 1936 – some weeks after the murder

The Suspects

Angus Seaton – lumberman
Francis Seaton – accountant
Scott Harris Fulton – MP
Hattie Hull – milliner / dressmaker
Kitty Talstra – slightly soiled bar gal
Big Bob – the bartender
Angelica – librarian – and Sunday School teacher wannabe
Emily Little – spinster
Mrs. Rochester – mad woman who knows all



The Suspects

Scott Harris Fulton – MP

Hattie Hull – milliner / dressmaker

Winifred also blackmails ANGELICA about her racy novel forcing her to withdraw 
her application for Sunday school teacher.


Kitty Talstra – slightly soiled bar gal

Big Bob – the bartender

Angus spends more and more time at big bob’s bar.  Something is troubling him.

Angus wrote a letter to Emily Little which he posted.  You don’t know what 
was in the letter but it caused him a lot of pain.


Angelica 	

Always wanted Emily to marry Bob

Doesn’t know why Bob withdrew his name from Candidacy but suspect’s foul 
play

Knows for certain that Winifred steams open the post – in fact has knowledge 
that 
Winifred has steamed open some of her most important mail.

Just before her wedding, Emily becomes more and more distraught and is no 
longer able to join ANGELICA in their afternoons novel writing and taxidermy.

At the party. ANGELICA notices that Emily is not herself as she will not enter 
into her usual yodeling duet. 



- Angelica always longed to be a novelist or Sunday School teacher – 
doesn’t understand that she withdrew her name from the SS committee

- Bob was Emily’s childhood sweetheart

- Emily could never marry a many who worked with his hands – but did feel a 
certain pull towards a certain gentleman who COULD be considered “working 
class”  And had, occationally met him for romantic encounters.

- Emily  paid money to Winifred in the past for something unspecified.

- On the night of the party Emily was out in the garden for unexplained reasons 
and found the body – but – fearing that her love had committed the dreadful 
deed – had said nothing.

- At times was worried that she would not have enough money.

-  Believes that Miss Hattie should not be judged and has set an example for 
other young ladies in the town by ordering her gowns and hats from her – in 
fact – she ordered her wedding gown from her and had many a fitting in that 
very room. – which was SO exciting.


 
Mrs. Rochester – 

Winifred has been known to blackmail people.

Ask Hattie what she overheard while doing a fitting with Emily

Scott was always unpopular – with friends and in love.

Scott became an MP by acclimation.  If ANYONE else had run against him – he 
would not be an MP today.

Francis NEVER plays charades or any party games

The stairs to the cellar are hollow

Many of the women in this town prefer the colour of pale blue for their gowns.

Angelica and Bob’s family are teetotalers  and until recently, Bob had never 
been exposed to drink.  When Bob opened a bar there was a rift that has not yet 
been mended.

Angelica would do almost anything to ensure her brother’s happiness

Frances sr. remittance man sent to the colonies because of a shameful past

Frances was artistic and sensitive and particularly attached to his mother
Too sickly to be sent away to school

Angus was short tempered and bull like very athletic and sent to his father’s 
alma mater which was Eton where he excelled at tennis

Angus was expelled from his Eton for an undisclosed reason

Francis had always hated that tennis racquet.

When Angus returned from school in England he escaped the stigma of being 
expelled form Eton by moving to Terrace.

Angus founded Terrace’s first lawn tennis club. 

Angus and Bob are best friends and both excel at Tennis.

Tennis matches – which happen on Sundays in Terrace are always attended by a 
Sunday school wannabe  Angelica   

Angus uses only his father’s tennis racket which gives him luck.

Winifred was a tall slender stately woman who wears almost exclusively pale 
blue.

Emily Little, daughter of one of the most foremost families in Terrace favors 
pale blue for her clothing. 

Francis first meets Emily Little at a River Boat days ball and is instantly 
smitten when she and her friend Angelica perform a yodeling duet. 

Emily has great fondness for Francis, but prefers his elder brother Angus 
particularly as Angus participates in  monthly tennis tournaments. 

Emily likes a man in shorts.

Emily tells  Angelica about her love for men who wear shorts. 

Angus and Emily found themselves thrown together a great deal particularly at 
the monthly couple tennis matches.

Francis, being sickly, can’t play tennis

Just before her wedding, Emily becomes more and more distraught and is no 
longer able to join Angelica in their afternoons novel writing and taxidermy.

Just before the murder Angus spends more and more time at big bob’s bar.  
Something is troubling him.

Winifred in her capacity as well witcher spends more and more time on the 
Seaton property looking for water and sees many things she can put towards her 
advantage.
 
Winifred has been receiving money from Angelica

Angelica wrote a racy novel and sent it away to publishers.

Angelica withdraw her application for a position as Sunday school teacher 
without disclosing a reason.

One day, after a particularly triumphant couples tennis match, Angus and Emily 
threw their arms around each other.
 
The spruce tree at the back of the Seaton’s house cannot be seen from inside 
the house.

The evening Winifred died was wet and f oggy – visability was very poor.

Bob arrived at the party late – and was seen by one person – entering by 
the back door and looking strange.

The murder weapon is hidden in the house.

Since the murder Emily has broken her engagement to Francis.  She also no 
longer plays tennis with Angus
he spot and it is suspected that she will be an old maid for the rest of her 
life, taking sweet sherry for medicinal purposes the rest of her life, 
prescribed by a kindly old doctor.

Francis and Angus never again uses the services of the well witchers.

Angelica’s best party trick is to identify obscure passages from the bible.  
Her second best party trick – which she adores doing – is presenting 
yodeling duets with her dearest friend Emily. 

Angelica wants to become a great novelist.

Emily is proficient in taxidermy.

Angelica always had a secret wish that Emily would marry her brother Bob.

Angelica always felt that Bob would have had a better chance with Emily if he 
had not given up the law to run a bar. 

Bob had intended to run for MP of the area but had suddenly withdrawn his name 
due.  No one is saying why.  When bob gave up his political aspiration, 
Angelica saw her brother reduced to being an alcoholic bartender with no hope 
of ever marrying Emily. 

Angelica withdrew her application to be a Sunday School teacher giving no 
reason 
and languishes as a part time librarian. 

With Winifred’s death, Angelica hopes to establish herself as the Terrace’s 
best Sunday school teacher.

Bob, the elder brother of Angelica, was raised in a tee total household and 
intended to take over his father’s law firm.  In his leisure hours he is a 
tremendous tennis player, and plays  tuba for relaxation.  

On the first evening of his candidacy for MP, Bob goes on a day long campaign 
and ends up at the moose lodge gives his campaign speech.  In return, the Moose 
brothers give him a copious  amount of moose juice.

The day after he announced his candidacy for MP, Bob wakes up in a shocking 
place, and with a very bad headache.

Miss Kitty is Winifred’s ward, and has lived with her since the death of her 
parents in an unfortunate boating accident.

Miss Kitty was thought to be an heiress, but when she turned 25, she discovered 
that she had NO money.

Bob stops being a lawyer the day after he anounces his candidacy for being MP 
– which he withdraws from on the same day.

Winifred has been seen in Big Bob’s bar only once.  She appeared to be 
taunting him, and he ordered her out of his establishment in a rage.  
Afterwards he was seen to be upset and moaning “what have I done?  What have 
I done?  I’ve lost everything.”

Bob hires Miss Kitty to work at the bar and  pays her a whopping wage. 

He doesn’t remember that he had promised miss kitty that he would take her 
case against Winifred to court.

During their evenings when business is slow, Bob and Kitty exchange the history 
of their lives.

One night after sampling  the latest shipment of fine wine from the Okanogan, 
Kitty confesses that “she could just kill Winifred”.  

One night after sampling  the latest shipment of fine wine from the Okanogan, 
Bob confesses that “she could just kill Winifred”.  

Big bob the night of the party is late arriving. Because his regular 
appointment with  Hattie.  

Before he goes in to the party on the fateful night – Big Bob goes to the 
back yard to have a pee and he knows that there is only one bathroom in the 
house. 

Bob feels responsible for Miss Kitty.

Kitty was an only child born in Terrace to steamboat entrepreneur Edmund and 
Hilary Talstra.

Hilary Fulton was the beauty of the family and married well. 

When Kitty was only a baby, Edmund and Hilary Fulton decided to test a new 
steamboat design by steaming down the Skeena to  Prince Rupert’s Seafest 
Days.    Unfortunately they hit a enormous run of oolichans which capsizes the 
boat and all hands went down with the boat. 

Winifred always hated her sister Hilary for being a beauty.
 
Someone in this story lost a fortune in black October - 1929. 

Kitty, in her childhood years, was forced to eat only turnips and porridge – 
except on special days when she was allowed mutton soup.  She was made to sleep 
in a cellar, do all the housework and rub Winifred’s feet every evening after 
work.  

As soon as she graduated from school, Kitty was forced to go to work at 
“Heavenly Hats and Delectable Dresses” and turn over all her earning to 
Winifred.  

Kitty’s only solace is watching the Sunday tennis tournaments which she 
sometimes enters to play with Big Bob whom she adores.  She knows that her love 
is unrequited. 

On miss kitty’s 25 birthday she learns some bad news.  In desperation she 
leaves the house to fling herself in the Skeena and rejoin her parents.  
Luckily for us – she meets someone who gives her hope.

Bob, on his way home from the moose lodge, the day he announced his candidacy, 
met a young damsel in distress.  He offers her solice.

The morning after her 25th birthday, Kitty wakes up the next morning,  with a 
terrible headache and is thrown out of the house by Winifred.

Kitty, after being thrown out of the house by Winifred,  finds a flophouse in 
Thornhill where there are insufficient washing facilities. She soon loses her 
job at Miss Hatties’ establishment.

Big Bob knows a terrible secret about Miss Kitty and Winifred but does not know 
that he knows.

On the night of the party, Kitty was hired to be the waitress. The Seaton boys 
show where the firewood out in the back and tell her one of her jobs is to keep 
the fireplace stoked. 

Miss Kitty and Angelica have been seen doing something suspicious under the 
stairs.

One of  winnifred’s siblings, Scott like Winifred was a vastly unpopular 
child. He was a bully and a snitch and aman of little brain and high libido.  
Had bad breath and political aspirations.  He is a man of routine and regular 
habit

As the only male child, scott inherited the modest estate when their parents, 
much to winnifred’s fury. 

Scott lost every single election he has run in since high school. He is 
thinking that he must marry well to increase his chances of election, he drew 
up a list of eligible women and in turn he proposed to and was turned down by 
all of them.  Emily and Angelica were both high on his list.

Scott, when not running for office, is the bylaw enforcement officer and dog 
catcher for the city. His only opponent for this race is Big Bob. 

Winifred was assured a VERY fine retirement.

Scott signed over the deed to all the property he inheirited from his parents 
to Winifred.

Scott was elected by acclamation.

You have to own property to be an MP in Canada in 1936.

Bob visits Hattie every Friday at 8 pm.

On the night of the party, Scott visits Hattie at his regular time. Hattie asks 
him to take her to the party but he refuses. 

When Scott arrives at the party he goes to the back yard.  

Despite the fact that no one can remember seeing him there, Scott announces 
loudly that he has been at the party for some time.

Hattie Hull had been a very good looking  woman who had many beaus in her youth 
and had expectations of her choice of suitors.  

Hattie had once been  engaged to Edmund Talstra. 

Hattie suffered a terrible mortification once at heritage days celebrations  
held at heritage park.

Hattie was once crowned Miss Terrace and in that year opened all the local 
gatherings until one fateful occasion.

Hattie only wears chiffon in the privacy of her room these days.

Winifred used to help Hattie dress for her Miss Terrace presentations.

Edmund Talstra broke his engagement to Hattie and married Hilary three weeks 
later.  The whole town understood why and he was not censured.

Hattie has more talents than hat and dress making.

Hattie continues to entertain the beaus of her youth. 

Angelica and Miss Kitty are two of Hattie’s best customers.

Winifred  is no longer able to get dresses made for her by Hattie.

Hattie was delighted to receive the commission for making Emily’s wedding 
dress.  Emily has been in for several fittings of her wedding gown, and, 
speaking with Angelica, had forgetting that Hattie was around.  Hattie has 
learned much.

The person you love is not always the person you are engaged to.

Hattie is not only the best, but also the only dressmaker in town.

Hattie goes into the back yard and notices a body in  badly sewn dress . She 
knows it is Winifred,  screams and faints.

Invitation

Francis Seaton (senior) was a remitance man, sent by his family in England to 
the wild colonies - Victoria.

There he met and married Mary Margaret Smith. 

The couple had two sons, Francis and Angus.

As an adult Angus traveled to Terrace BC, where he ran a successful lumber 
business.  So successful was he, that he invited his brother, Francis, to join 
the company as bookkeeper/accountant.

The two brothers built the Seaton house on Davis Avenue, intending to invite 
their mother (now widowed) to live with them.  Sadly, they could find no water 
on the property, and had to employ a well witcher.  The first well witcher was 
unsuccessful.  The second, Winifred Fulton local well witcher and postmistress, 
was sadly found murdered on the evening the Seaton’s were throwing an open 
house for all their friends in Terrace.
 
Now many of the people who were there that fated evening will be once more 
together and we invite you to an evening of detective work and fun, as you try 
to discover, “Who killed Winifred Fulton”

Tickets  $
Time 7:00 p.m.
BYOB – please mark your bottle
You may want to bring foot wear, bla, bla, bla.


Who Killed Winifred Fulton?


The Victim – Winifred Fulton – Postmistress and Well Witcher

The Place and Time – Terrace BC, 1936 – some weeks after the murder

The Suspects

Angus Seaton – lumberman
Francis Seaton – accountant
Scott Harris Fulton – MP
Hattie Hull – milliner / dressmaker
Kitty Talstra – slightly soiled bar gal
Big Bob Hull – the bartender
Angelica Hull – librarian – and Sunday School teacher wannabe
Emily Little – spinster
Mrs. Rochester – mad woman who knows all

You will note that not all the suspects are present this evening.  Francis and 
Angus have not been able to set foot in the house since the grizzly discovery.  
You will get to know them, though, through the accounts of the other 
characters.  Remember, that anyone might lie.  

Miss Karen Chrysler, a dear friend of the boys, has agreed to assume hostess 
duties in their absence.  She invites you to eat, drink, detect and be merry.


Just to keep things straight – a series of  family trees

Francis Seaton Sr.
Mary Margaret Smith
Francis Seaton
Angus Seaton


James Fulton
Janice Harris
Scott Fulton
Winifred Fulton
Hilary Fulton
Edmund Talstra
Kitty Talstra

Robert Hull
Angel Hull
Bob Hull
Angelica Hull

Emily Little – needs no introduction as she is from one of Terrace’s 
foremost families

Hattie McDaniels – comes from a proud but poor family most interested in 
establishing a series of skateboard parks throughout the northwest.

No one knows anything about Mrs. Rochester except that she is mad and that she 
has clues for sale throughout the evening.

Love letter from angus to E – urging for the meeting unsigned

My darling:

You are right.  What we are doing is wrong, and it is only right to break it 
off now, and forever.  We cannot do wrong forever, it isn’t right.

I was wrong to love you, but it felt so right.  The first time I held you in my 
arms I felt pride for the first time since being sent down.  You have been my 
salvation.

But it is wrong…. You are right to want something so wrong to end.

But wrong or right, do me the honour of meeting me one last time – so I can 
hold you in my arms.  On the night of the party, meet me behind the house – 
under the spruce tree, that I may hold you in my arms one last time.

Then it will be over.  I will see you every day for the rest of my life but 
never again dare to touch you.

Be there – rain or shine, wrong or right, 

Your loving 


For one who intends to lead the spiritual lives of our young, you have a rather 
raucous style.  If the Sunday School committee saw what you wrote in your 
“leisure” time you would surely be barred from the church forever.

I am sure that a paltry dollar a week would not be missed from your pin money.  
You may send it by post.  No address – I’ll get it.

W.


For one who is known to profess that she can never marry a man who works with 
his hands, you certainly seem able to do things outside of marriage. 

Did you think that no one in Terrace knew that the Atlin Tennis Tournament was 
cancelled?  I knew.  And yet you attended.

If you don’t want your fiancée to find out – send me $5 a week.  You may 
send it by post.  No address – I’ll get it.

W.


 
You choose a strange way to show fondness for your brother.  I should think 
that few brothers are THAT close to their future sister in laws.  

Your firm is one of the few thriving in the difficult time.  Surely you can 
help a struggling fellow citizen.  I ask only $7 a week for my silence. You may 
send it by post.  No address – I’ll get it.

W.
Miss Winifred Fulton
Postmistress
Terrace, BC  

Month?  1916

Dear Miss Fulton:

May I be the first to express my condolences at the death of your beautiful 
sister, Hilary, and her entrepreneur husband, Edmund?  It was a very great loss 
to our country, in these already difficult times.

As you know, Miss Kitty Talstra is the only surviving heir to the Talstra 
fortune (currently estimated at $100.000.00).  As she is an infant she cannot, 
of course, inherit, so, it is my duty to inform you that, as the legal guardian 
of our little heiress, the entire $100.000.00 will be placed at your disposal 
to be best used for the upbringing of the child.

According to her mother’s wishes, you will be the custodian of the child 
until her 25th birthday when the fortune reverts to her.

If we can be of service to you please have no hesitation in writing.  A fortune 
this large needs careful management.

Yours truly,


I.B. Moneygrubber
Barrister and Solicitor

Scum, Scum, Scum, and Swindler
Investment Brokers

January 4, 1930

Dear Miss Fulton:

I regret that your letter of November 2 was not answered more speedily.  
Unfortunately, Mr. Scum, with whom you have dealt over the past years, decided 
to throw himself off the 15th floor of our Toronto building near the end of 
October.

His files were taken over by another Mr. Scum, who also threw himself off a 
high floor of our office tower the next month.

As you can imagine, there was some pandemonium happening, and in all the fuss, 
your letter was incorrectly filed. 

You will be happy to note that we have moved all our investment brokers to the 
lower 2 floors of our building so we do not anticipate any further disruptions 
in service due to inappropriate (or even appropriate) jumping.

It is my sad duty to inform you, however, that the entire $100,000.00 that you 
invested with us in pork bellies has been lost in this terrible collapse.  

We acknowledge that you should have been informed of this sad loss earlier, and 
in compensation, we have decided to NOT charge you a brokerage fee.

We look forward to doing business with you in the future.

Sincerely


B.I.G. Swindler.

My dear Hattie:

I was shocked and disappointed last week when you informed me that you no 
longer intended to sew my gowns.  You know that there is no other dressmaker in 
Terrace, and I have no intention of using my few after work hours to stitch my 
own clothes.  Surely a woman in your precarious economic and social position 
should not take it upon herself to refuse custom.

Don’t think that I don’t know where this is all stemming from.  Surely a 
girlish prank all those years ago can be forgiven and forgotten.  After all it 
backfired on me too.  How was I to know that he would go off and marry my 
sister?  That was the LAST thing I wanted – she’d already been spoiled 
enough, and then she got to go and marry that rich man.

Believe me I have repented at leisure – having that brat to look after at the 
same time.  And no money to support her, either.

Well, if you won’t you won’t but I don’t understand how you can afford to 
turn away paying customers.

If you reconsider just send me a note – I’ll get it, with or without 
address.

Winifred Fulton.
I, Scott Harris Fulton, to agree to turn over the deed to the Fulton farm and 
all associated properties, to my sister, Winifred Fulton, in exchange for 
unspecified duties she has performed for me.

I relinquish all claims to all title of the land and it’s assets and declare 
that Winifred Fulton is the right and proper owner.

Signed this day

By

Scott Harris Fulton

In the presence of 

Royal Order of the (Rudiments)
­Moose Lodge 79

Dear Mr. Hull:

We were very sorry to hear that you had withdrawn your candidacy for Member of 
Parliament for this riding.  

Your pleasant speech last week, at the Moose Lodge, made us all feel that you 
were certainly that man for the job.  Your politics were solid, and your liking 
for our specially brewed “Moose Juice’ showed definite good taste.

We would like to point out, that, now you have resigned, Mr. Scott Harris 
Fulton is the only candidate and it is the unanimous decision of this Lodge 
that we would rather send a three legged dog to parliament than Mr. Fulton.  We 
urge you to re-consider and to reverse your withdrawal from the race.   

We don’t understand this sudden change.  WHAT could have made you withdraw 
your name?

Fogimus Bull
President
Saint Georges School for Boys
Victoria, BC

September 21, 1906

Dear Mr. and Mrs. Seaton:

Thank you for the note about young Francis, a fine new scholar at our school.  
Francis is, I assure you, settling in well here at the school.  

Your worry that he may be ostracized because of his poor health and inability 
to play sports has proved groundless.  Frances is, as you say, not an athlete 
and is, indeed, unable to enter into the cricket and rugby tournaments.  Even 
lawn tennis seems to be difficult for him.

However, we have discovered that Frances has very strong arms and have enrolled 
him in the arm wrestling club here at the school.  The strength in his arms is 
quite astounding for a child of his delicate nature, and his success in this 
area has made him extremely popular with his classmates.

In his academic work he shows a definite gift for numbers and we hope to see 
great things of him.

We look forward to seeing you again on parent’s day, this spring.  I assume 
Frances will join the family for Christmas at the end of this term.

Yours most cordially,



Horatio Hottentot
Headmaster.
Eton Public School for Boys
May 17, 1910

Dear Mr. and Mrs. Seaton:

It is my sad duty, as housemaster of Kings House, Eton, to tell you that it is 
necessary to send your son, Angus, down.

Torn paper here                                                                 
                    shame
						                                
          knew better, 
                                                                                
                                    greatly shocked
									        
 first discovered
										
even 
									
aggressive nature
										
of the finest
										
alcohol which
									        
of course
									    
boys said
		 							
unacceptable
behaviour will be sent away from the school.
			
Although Angus has excelled at Eton – especially in lawn tennis, we cannot 
accept such behaviour in any of our boys and we must ask that you remove him as 
soon as possible.  

We believe such behaviour may infect other boys and so we have taken the 
precaution of removing him from the other boys of the school.

The family of the affected child is not pressing charges.			
										
			
It disturbs me to write such a letter to a man who is, indeed, an Old Etonian, 
but our standards must remain high.

I wish Angus every success in the future and hope he does better at a colonial 
school.

Regards,



Tomas Arnold
Kings House Master


3549 Eby Street
Terrace, BC

May 25, 1920

Dear Miss Hilary McDaniels:

As mayor of this fine city, it is a pleasure for me to offer my congratulations 
on your attaining the position of Miss Terrace.  The rank is a grand one, and 
we expect to see a great deal of you throughout the year.

As you may know, it is customary for Miss Terrace to open the Heritage Days 
Ceremony each year at Heritage Park.  This year the festivities start on June 
1. The Princesses will also have a role in the ceremony and will be your 
“hand maidens” in the morning

 The town constructs a bandstand so that all may see, and Miss Terrace cuts the 
ribbon to start the celebration, and usually makes a pretty speech.

As Miss Terrace it will also be your duty to inspect the farm animals and the 
baking and canned goods that are on display.  Your escort for the day will be 
myself.  It is also customary for Miss Terrace to cut the “Heritage Cake” 
the first evening.

I look forward to seeing much of you at your first official gathering.

Yours truly,
G. I. M.  Randy

Hilary McDaniels
Terrace, BC

June 2, 1920

Dear Miss McDaniels:

It is my sad duty to withdraw the proposal of marriage you accepted last month. 
 I cannot but believe you know the reason.  

Ordinarily a man who withdraws a proposal of marriage which has been accepted 
by a lady would be considered a cad.  However, I believe that the display which 
all of Terrace saw yesterday would be construed in a court of law as “breach 
of promise”.  

An engaged lady is expected to behave in a manner which would reflect well on 
her fiancée.  The unfortunate incident at Heritage Park has striped me of all 
my expectations and I cannot take a lady who has been so compromised to the 
altar.

I wish you every success in the future and regret this very unfortunate 
occurrence.

With regret I am….




Edmund Talstra

Terrace, BC
Dec. 7, 1933

Dear Mr. Fulton: 

I thank you for your very polite letter inviting me to be your wife.  I am 
delighted that you believe I am, as you put it, a woman who would bring glory 
to any man seeking the position of Member of Parliament.

I DID find that the compliment was somewhat blighted, however, by the fact that 
I was with my two dearest friends, Miss Jessica Olsen and Miss Charity Scott, 
when I went to the post office, and they, too, received identical letters from 
you with your proposal.  

Between the three of us we have ascertained that you have sent out no less than 
fifteen letters to ladies in this town with the same proposal.  

Miss Olsen and Miss Scott ask that I reply for them as well as myself when I 
say that, flattering, as it is to receive a marriage proposal, we must all 
decline.

We look forward to seeing if any of your letters will meet with success.

Sincerely

Faith Straume

My dearest one:

Ever since that day we found ourselves in each other’s arms, I have been 
living with a sense of foreboding.   No good can come of this.

Although we have tried to keep our feelings for each other a secret, I have had 
to confide in my dearest friend.  Even she, loving me as she does, and doing 
all she can to excuse my behaviour, is shocked.

How can we behave in this manner?  The first time I was in your arms was an 
accident, but you must know that I have taken many opportunities to drop by 
your new house and visit you in the back yard.  I have come to think of the 
spruce tree in the back as “our tree”.  But it is wrong, wrong, wrong, and 
we must be strong.  

Don’t tempt me anymore, we must end this forever.

Your E.

Police Statement - February 10, 1936

Responding to a young man sent to “fetch the police” I attended the Seaton 
Residence on Davis Ave. at approximately 9:30 p.m. on February 9.

There I found a vast number of people in the back yard, surrounding the prone 
body of a woman.  A doctor was called and declared the woman dead.  The victim 
was the local postmistress – a woman of a “certain” age named Winifred 
Fulton.

The woman appeared to have sustained a fatal blow to the head on the right 
temple.  I searched the area and found no instrument which could have struck 
the blow.  I also searched the ground for a stone or timber which the victim 
could have fallen on, but could find nothing.

There had been a party at the Seaton residence which included a spirited game 
of charades.  After much questioning I resolved that only Mrs. M. Eby, and Mr. 
J. A. Tweedle could be vouched for as having never left the house.  The rest of 
the guests could have left the house at any time to meet the victim and then 
returned without being seen.

A Miss Kitty Talstra, who had been hired as a maid for the evening of the 
party, recalled that she had heard “something” in the back yard when she 
went out to gather some kindling.  She put the time between “8:15 and 9:00 
p.m.” but thought it may have been closer to the earlier time.  She did not 
investigate.

Miss Fulton had been employed as a well witcher by the Seaton brothers and had 
spent a great deal of time on their property looking for water.   There does 
not seem to be any other connection to the woman.

The party was subdued after the grizzly discovery, and the yodeling duet, which 
had been scheduled for the evening, was postponed.

At this time I have no doubt that the woman was murdered, but I have no clue as 
to the motive, or the murder weapon.  All at the party except the two people 
mentioned above seem to have had the opportunity.

Submitted this 10th day of February, 1936 by 

Arthur Copp, Constable.

I, Scott Harris Fulton, do hereby delegate the money and advantages of the 
Member of Parliament Retirement package to my sister, Winifred Fulton, in 
exchange for unspecified duties she has performed for me.

I relinquish all claims to the money and entitlements and declare that Winifred 
Fulton is the right and proper appointee.

Signed this day

By

Scott Harris Fulton

In the presence of 


Heavenly Hats and Delectable Dresses
Terrace, BC

Nov. 13, 1935

Dear Kitty:

Much as it pains me to write this, I must tell you that your services are no 
longer required at my establishment.  

You know how much this depression has affected business and I thank you for 
your offer to work for less.  However, the fact is, since last August, you have 
arrived from work looking tired and dusty, as if you had traveled quite a 
distance, and you have been wearing progressively dirtier and wrinkled clothes. 
 

I do not feel that you are giving my establishment the refined tone I am 
seeking to install.  I thank you for your past work for me, and wish you luck 
in the future.

I am truly sorry.


Hattie McDaniels
January 1938

Dear Diary:

I‘ve had it with that aunt of mine.  I can’t take those smelly feet one 
more night.  And after I am rich I am never going to look at another turnip or 
bowl of porridge again!!!

How she angers me.

I hate her, I hate her.

Well my birthday is coming soon, and then I’ll be the one laughing.  I wonder 
if she expects to get money from me?  She’s been living off the interest from 
my money all these years – how else could she afford those trips to Vancouver 
every year.  Not on her postmistress salary – and she never takes me with her.

I wonder how much money she gets every month for looking after me.  She won’t 
tell me anything.  Just says “whatever I take I earn – your mother owed 
me”.  

I wish she would die.

K

August 1938

Dear Miss Little:

I must apologize for this letter.  You know that I wrote you a little while ago 
asking you to be my wife.  At the time I had not known of your engagement.

If you had, indeed, intended to break you present engagement to marry me, I 
must tell you that I am now withdrawing my proposal.  

I find that in my current financial position, I would not be able to support a 
wife.  I had thought that with my farm, my MP salary and my MP pension I would 
be well able to support even a woman who is as used to luxury and fine things 
as you are.  However, I find myself in an embarrassing financial situation and 
cannot think of marrying for quite some time.

I wish you every happiness in your upcoming marriage.

Scott Harris Fulton

Ps DID you ever think of breaking it off with Francis to marry me?  


3549 Eby Street
Terrace, BC

June 3, 1920

Dear Miss McDaniels:

As mayor of this fine city, it is my sad duty to inform you that the council 
has decided to rescind your position of Miss Terrace.  The rank is a grand one, 
and we expected to see a great deal of you throughout the year, but not as much 
as we saw on June 1.

As you may know, when you stood on the bandstand to open the Heritage Days 
Ceremony you caused a good many of the older ladies to faint.  Although some of 
the younger gentlemen in the crowd made appreciative comments, we cannot have 
Terrace known as a city of wanton behaviour.  

We have asked Miss Clara Clinton, who was your first princess, to take on the 
position of Miss Terrace for the remainder of the year.

Although I personally appreciated your somewhat, um, artistic creation, I must 
bow to the wisdom and decision of the council.

If you would care to discuss this matter with me, I would be pleased to see you 
in my office, perhaps after hours so we can discuss the decision.  I would be 
pleased to see any other artistic outfit you have designed.

Yours truly,

G. I. M.  Randy

1925
Terrace Central Elementary and Secondary School.

Dear Mr. and Mrs. Hull:

This is to clarify the unfortunate facts behind the rumors that have circulated 
about the school in the last week concerning the unfortunate incident with your 
son.

Our teacher, Miss Edwina Eby, was first made aware that something untoward had 
happened in the school grounds when Miss Emily Little, came rushing in to the 
classroom in tears.

Miss Eby heard snatched words that sounded like “I’ll never speak to him 
again.” And “how could he be so cruel?” and “I didn’t know he had 
such a vicious temper”.

Miss Eby has been aware that your son, Robert Jr. and Miss Little have a 
special friendship, and at first she felt that the tears could be dismissed as 
a small tiff between people who obviously enjoy each other’s company.  When 
the tears persisted, however, she investigated and found that Robert Jr. had 
been fighting.  Miss Little had been gathering daisies when she wandered around 
the side of the building and saw the fight in progress.  Apparently it was a 
very vicious battle.

As you know, Robert had beaten Scott Harris Fulton quite badly.  When Miss Eby 
arrived at the scene she found Scott Fulton lying in a mud puddle, crying 
loudly and bleeding from the nose and the knees.  He also had a fair number of 
bruises and cuts the next day.  Robert Jr., who certainly has a strong punch, 
was standing over him.

As you may know, Scott Fulton is not a popular child and no other children had 
come in to let the teachers know there was an altercation.  

Robert Jr. refused to divulge the reason behind the beating, however, some of 
the girls in the crowd disclosed that Scott had been tormenting frogs and 
Robert Jr. had suggested that someone show him what it is like to be tormented.

As you know we cannot condone violence at school.  Robert received a good 
beating from myself with the strap and will be suspended for a week.  Miss 
Little has been greatly affected by this behaviour and has had to stay home as 
well.  We hear that she is in a darkened room and needs cool cloths for her 
head hourly.

When Robert Jr. returns to school we hope to find a better behaved child.  We 
have given strict instructions to all our students and staff that this incident 
NEVER be spoken of again.  

Please discuss this matter with your son.  Until now, he has been an exemplary 
studen

Yours truly,



Edward Emmerson, 
Principal
Kitty:

After discovering your disgusting behaviour last night with that man who 
considers himself a “gentleman” I have no recourse but to demand you leave 
my house.  You are 17 years old now, you have a job, and you can live on your 
own if you insist on acting in such a way.

Can you imagine my consternation about the fact that you spent the night with a 
man in full view of the entire neighbourhood?

Can you deny that you were drunk?

You say that you will take me to court to get your rightful inheritance from 
me.  Well, that which isn’t gone is mine, for looking after you for all those 
long years.  Turnips are expensive, you know.  And kids don’t need good 
clothes, but postmistresses do.  My trips to Vancouver were to meet with your 
lawyers.  There was no need for you to come, you were a minor, and I needed 
time away.  I have always despised children.

So, take me to court if you dare.  Who will believe a drunken slut like you?

If you can’t afford a room in Terrace, I’m sure you can find a flophouse in 
Thornhill.

W.





Byron Ignasious George Swindler
