
Bill:  Sorry about the spelling of names and dances  - I'm off work today and 
heard your stuff on costume parties.  One of my favourite entertainments.  Hope 
you enjoy this.

K.


A hot room, shaggy beards, pulsing music, and lots of people whose creations I 
couldn't understand.

It was 1978, and someone from the Communications Student Union of SFU had 
thrown a "Come As Your Favourite Socialist" party.  As a hanger on of the 
student union, and a student who was decidedly pink, it was de rigour that I 
attend.  The problem was,  I was not well steeped in the more intricate aspects 
of socialist history.  I could talk of Marx, Che, and had hung out with the 
Trotskyists, but there are remarkably few women in socialist history, and those 
are usually not particularly attractive.  As a 22 year old woman, I was not 
about to show up at a costume party looking unattractive, nor be one of a 
series of Rosa Luxenbergs.

My boyfriend at the time had no problem.  He dressed himself as one of the 
Russian hockey players who had done well in that year's Canada-Russia hockey 
game.  I have never had the slightest interest in hockey.  The player Dave 
dressed up as was definitely doing better than our relationship, partially 
because of Dave's insistence on  watching sports.

Dave's other passion, comic book collecting, inspired my costume.  Comic 
collectors have a passion for unusual comic books, filled with lurid pictures 
of women with impossible cleavages, masculine muscles and legs which are even 
longer than Barbie's.  In one such comic I found my character.  She was a 
beautiful Russian spy, who had supernatural powers which changed her into a 
spider.  She was dark, with lurid lips, and wore a black bustier, short skirt,  
fishnet stockings, and black stilettos -  just the type of costumes every woman 
would want to fight crime in.

At this point I must digress and confess that there was another man in my life. 
 Sort of.  He and I would meet at the SFU pub, talking for hours, eyes meeting, 
but never showing any affection.   He was quiet, gentle, and very shy.  He 
approved of the costumes Dave and I were planning but was silent on his own 
creation.

The night of the party Dave and I arrived two hours late (you try to find 
fishnet stockings in 1978 Vancouver) to a room filled with pipe smoking men and 
intense looking women.  I moved to the dance floor immediately.   Hot.  Dark.  
Sweaty.  I moved.   The Castro Meranga, Guevara Rumba, Robert Mogabi Waltz.  I 
danced them all.  With groups, a partner or by myself, I moved around the dance 
floor.  Then, a Russian hockey player moved in to move with me.  Not Dave, but 
my gentle, quiet friend from the SFU pub.  It was a sign;  I left the party 
with him.

In other years I have been a fried egg at a costume gala in Quebec city, a 
stuffed olive at a  benefit in Kitimat and a devil's club plant at a house 
party in Prince George.  But I'll always remember with amazement, the only time 
I was glad to see a hockey player  -  someone who had dressed up  just for me.

Karla Hennig
4542 Park Ave.
Terrace, BC  V8G 1T8

(250) 635-5463 - phone
(250) 638-1141 - fax
kjh@kermode.net - e mail


