The time has come, the Walrus said,
To talk of many things,
Of shoes and ships and sealing wax
Of cabbages and kings
And why the sea is boiling hot
And whether pigs have wings"

This poem by Lewis Caroll was first read to my sisters and me by my father who 
was a good dramatic reader and who loved nonsense poetry.  And I have often 
thought that this eclectic list of items reflected our father who was a man of 
many diverse talents, and man of contradictions.

Our father was a man of incongruity.

A teacher who was no stranger to hard physical labour,
A man who could build a house or mend the tiniest, most delicate porcelain 
figure,
A man who loved fine books, classical music and old, decrepit machinery,
A conservative man who consistently embraced and supported leftist politics,
A highly ethical man with strong moral values who did not like to attend church,
A man who believed in the importance of family and of spending time with them 
and yet who spent countless hours bargaining for the BCTF,
A private man who enjoyed and encouraged company.

For as long as I can remember, on my parent's dresser, there has been a jewel 
box.  It is made of copper with brass plates which are engraved.  They say "To 
my wife, Margaret, with love, Christmas 1949"  Mom has told the story of how 
dad made that box for her because they were so poor that year that he couldn't 
afford to buy her anything.  But I can't imagine a greater gift than a present 
made especially for you, with love.

I once asked my father how he had learned to engrave.  "Oh, that was easy," he 
said, "when I was in the army we were stationed near a town with an old jeweler 
and I used to go and watch him work.  Then I thought 'that's not so hard' and I 
made myself some bits and started to engrave".  That story encapsulates my 
father.  A man who believed in the capabilities of his hands and his intellect 
and who was not afraid to teach himself whatever he needed to learn.

As children we often take for granted what we have, and I believe none of us 
appreciated the many things we got from our father.

We were the only girls I know of who had hand made, wooden Barbie doll 
furniture which you could stand on.  (and I know you could stand on it because 
Debbie Zentner stood on my Barbie doll bed in grade two and that bed is still 
intact today)

We are all still using the stools, tables, benches, cupboards, Christmas 
decorations and other items he made for us.  

In our kitchens we all have the beautiful knives he made with the wooden 
handles, brass collars and those incredibly sharp blades.  Many of you will 
remember dad's left forearm which never had any hair on it, because when he was 
finished sharpening a knife he would run it along his left forearm to see if it 
was sharp enough to shave with.

And when my uncle Ed gave us a pig for Christmas, we assumed it was only right 
that dad would clear the land to build a fence and also build the pig barn.

We had many home made toys in our lives but my favourites were always the bows 
and arrows which he made.  He made a lot of them for us.  I don't know if it 
was because we broke them so often or because we grew, and dad was adamant that 
we should have a bow which was proper for our height.

I remember running in the basement door with my bow held horizontally one year 
and breaking it into three sections, as it was wider than the door.  I thought 
I would get in trouble, but Dad just sighed and three days later I had another 
bow.

We always thought our father could fix anything and he usually could.  We were 
so sure of this that once, when my sister Kristen was two, she dropped a glass 
on the floor.  And it hit in such a way that it shattered into hundreds of 
pieces.  The conversation at the table stopped and we all said "Kristen!" but 
she just looked at us confidently and said "daddy fix it".

At night, when we were in bed, we could hear him downstairs in his workshop.  
And if the house was especially quiet that night you would think we had 
visitors because dad talked while he worked, either to himself or to the 
particular piece he was working on.  Now dad had a temper, all the Hennigs have 
tempers, but he never swore.  When something would go wrong with a piece he was 
working on you would hear him say "oh, you stinker".

Dad was very tidy around the house, and was a great believer of  everything 
having and being in it's place.  We were always allowed to use his tools, 
providing we put them back in the same condition and in the same place we had 
taken them from.  As a teenager, I would study a screwdriver carefully before I 
took it out of it's spot, determined to replace it exactly.  I would use it, 
and then, SO carefully wipe it and return it.  That night at dinner, dad would 
casually ask "so, who used my screwdriver?"  I could never figure out how he 
knew.  I still don't know.

Both Dad and Mom were adamant that our education did not stop at school and so, 
as children and adolescents we were taken to the symphony, plays, museums, the 
planetarium, and dad took us to our first opera - "The Marriage of Figaro - 
sung in English"

I always felt that dad was a little overwhelmed with the females in the family. 
 An only son with two sisters, a husband with three daughters. And, as we had 
the kind of home which welcomed our friends, it was not unusual for us to have 
many females around the table.  As teenage girls will, at times we were struck 
by the giggles which were infectious.  Dad was a great believer in table 
manners  "If you can't behave properly you should leave the table" he would say.
There are some people here today who will remember the many times we were all 
struck with the giggles and we would leave, one by one, until all the women 
were crying with laughter in the living room, collapsed on the couch and the 
floor, while poor dad sat alone at the table eating dinner.

Dad believed in us being independent.  He insisted that we all learn how to 
change the oil, and air filters on our cars, do basic tire maintenance and do 
lube jobs.  He was pleased that we all chose professions, lawyer, nurse and 
teacher, which would ensure that we would have the ability to be economically 
independent if we needed to be.

But our father loved family, and I believe he was never happier than when we 
were all together, as a nuclear or an extended family.  Those Christmases, New 
Years, Thanksgivings, birthdays with extended family were full of eating, 
talking, laughing, and game playing.  

Dad was wonderful at games.  He had a visual memory which made him a wicked 
card player and he's the only man I know who could drop the Queen of Spades on 
anyone he wanted to, at any time.  When the grandchildren came along games were 
especially important and dad spent many hours playing checkers, cards, chess 
and other games with his three grandchildren.   Grandpa was always ready for a 
game.

We always felt that Dad and Mom worked as a team.  Together they created a 
wonderful home for us.  A home with a comfortable house, a bountiful garden, a 
lovely orchard and a park like setting of lawn and forest.  But more than that, 
together they created a home which was 
caring, warm, challenging, funny, creative and, accepting.

To paraphrase a well known playwright, today and for the rest of my life "I 
come not to mourn my father, but to celebrate him"
