Sometimes I dream that I am awake and starting my day and my dream wake self 
is a much more decisive person than my real wake self.  
I have just woken from such a dream.
My dream wake self is very able.  She can often float and tends to go up and 
down stairs via a floaty devise that makes any set of stairs completely 
negligible. She also sees more people than the real wake self. 
My dream wake self encounters people who in the real world are gone.  Tonight, 
for example, she had a nice time with Robert, who died last Nov.  He is well 
and funny and up to mischief as usual.  he also looked like his thirty 
something self, before he started to lose his hair.  Dream Karla often 
encounters a young man called Devlin, who died two years ago.  Each time they 
meet she is so delighted and can't wait to call his mother to tell her that his 
death was all a mistake.  "Everyone will be so excited to see you" she tells  
him.
My dream wake self is very canny and tends to see so many things my real wake 
self never understands.  She often finds hitherto unknown secret passages in 
buildings, and she knows how to make windows and mirrors into doorways into 
other worlds.  

In fact, I do believe that my dream wake self is best at finding the unusual in 
normal objects.  My dream wake self cannot seem to open a book without a 
creature hopping out of it or finding a treasure or riddle, look at a map 
without being transported somewhere, or let a picture BE a picture.  
Tonight, for example, she discovered a way to deposit wanted objects into 
pictures.  She decided to store all those items that would be hard to pack up 
and move to Penticton in her pictures, so an antique salt bowl, a delicate 
glass blown rabbit, and a hand painted plate were put into pictures on my 
living room wall. The objects immediately became two dimensional and appeared 
in the picture.  The women dancing in the field, holding hands, had a plate on 
the ground, on the window of the prairie house, sat the salt bowl, etc.   I 
have no doubt that, once she got to Penticton, she could reach into the 
pictures and take them out again.   
The real world Karla is bumblely and bustlely, tends to do things in quick 
bursts of energy and is far from graceful.  The dream wake Karla models 
herself on romantic heroines from novels.  She can glide about like Jane Eyre 
through mansions, and she is proficient at instruments without the necessity of 
practicing.   Not for her the frustration of not being able to play well 
because you have been skipping your piano technique.   Dream Karla never seems 
to sweat.
I think dream Karla is slightly thinner too.
I wouldn't mind the two of us getting together.   She is so very competent 
(though rather priggish at times) and I'd sure like to learn the trick of 
finding all those secret passages and making friends with the creatures who 
lurk in my house.
And she should learn to sweat and also to figure out when she is in 
trouble.   She has a tendency to feel forebodings but to do stupid things 
anyway.  She's not quite like those women in horror films who end up exploring 
attics all by themselves and in stiletto heels, but she does meet people with 
an aura of menace to them, and have a hard time extricating herself.   She's 
too damn polite to just walk away and she never asks for help.  She relies on 
running away when things get tense .... luckily she can float down stairs, she 
doesn't fall down them. 
