Why is it that certain authors are perfect at times in your life?  

When I came down on the plane, I brought down "Blink" a book on why and when 
people should trust their intuition and instincts.  Well written, filled with 
interesting facts, held me when I was reading, but I kept losing it. I'd put it 
down and the book would grow legs and wander off to a dusty corner and lurk 
there, daring me to find it.

Throughout my time at Carol's and Ingrid's I beavered away at it, (after 
putting in significant time each day to locate it) and finally brought it here.

And promptly lost it.  

I know I have only a chapter left; I know I merely have to skim bits of it to 
locate fascinating snippets of information which startled and delighted me, but 
I also know that I have not put any time into looking for it.  Merely 
mentioned that the book is missing to mom and am relying on chance and the fact 
that books often get bored with the "hide and seek" game and come out into the 
light when they are prepared to be read.

In the meantime I picked up a Terry Pratchet that I hadn't read before.

Despite my current life style - waking way too early in the morning and having 
days punctuated by the wants and needs of others, the book follows me around 
like an insecure puppy.  I don't get a lot of time to read right now, yet it 
settles itself patiently by my side, ready to offer respite whenever I need it.

Terry Pratchet is a man I'd love to have dinner with.  Never thought that 
about Oscar Wilde (though I love his writing). With Oscar, the comedy is too 
practiced ... you get a feeling he tried out the quips and jokes in front of a 
mirror as he was dressing, stored them up and trotted them out at the 
appropriate moment.  The dinner would be rife with my need to create the 
"perfect moment" for Oscar to shine.  I get nervous just thinking about it.  
Dinner with Oscar would be a sit down, several course, chose the right wine 
occasion.

With Terry, we'd wander down to a bistro, or buy a hot dog off a street vendor, 
and the humor would bounce between us, like a ping pong ball.  Easy and 
comfortable.  (poor man is developing Alzheimer's though ...  poor man.  
Poor public .... we rely on Terry to keep us sane during these times in our 
lives!)  
 
Lewis Carrol, of course, is perfect for all times of one's life.  

Interesting to think of what would be appropriate to consume with various 
authors ...

Crepes and Cognac with Collette
Roast pork and beer with Dickens
Whiskey and buns with Virginia Woolf
Mutton stew and ale with the Bronte sisters
Cold beef pie and hock with Miss Jane
Slightly stale cake and tea with Elizabeth Gaskell
Hardtack and rum with Melville
Crawfish and corn whiskey with Twain

the list goes on.

Right, will try going back to bed.  Maybe I can lure sleep out of her lair for 
a little while.











On your list, I'd only want to eat with Pratchett, Dickens and Austen.
On MY list, I'd chow down with Shakespeare (dark ale and anything meaty), 
L.M.Montgomery (I hear she was a good cook, so I'll take anything she makes), 
Emily Carr (she wouldn't give me anything except a cup of tea, until I passed 
the test, which I might not...) and Kinky Friedman (whiskey -- and anything 
that's in the fridge without mould).
A great, rainy day exercise -- eating with famous authors...
Maybe the BLINK book is testing your intuition.    
John left for Dawson Creek again.  No going-away fight.  Just sad...
I found this poem that I wrote in September 2006.  On this autumnal, rainy 
day, it seems appropriate...
 
This is
Not to cry when your daughter leaves
When your son is poor
This is
Not to sigh with the falling leaves
When the cold rains pour
This is 
Not to groan under heavy skies
When your mother calls
This is not to moan
When your husband flies
This is
To crawl and stagger
To hope and swagger
To hum, strum,
Climb, rhyme,
Fling, sing, shout,
Anything 
To drown it out.
 
Eating with famous authors can be added to that list!
Love, Brenda



Just got home from a walk to the beach.

Not far but once you get there 120+ stairs down and back up again ... 

When I got back up - I was winded so sat on a conveniently placed bench (they 
have them strategically set along the stairs so the old people don't have heart 
attacks on the trail up) 

a family of  4 deer walked right past me ... I could have leaned over and 
touched them (they were apparently still sleepy too - as they didn't notice me).

Then walked back to mom's place.  As I came in, I caught a glimpse of the fur 
hats etc. that I had left on the table ... thought they were some sort of 
strange animal and gave a yell.

So heart pumping fast twice this morning.

Right - off to do ab exercises and then to make coffee .... more packing in the 
cards for me today.

