Hi Kenn

The following started as a letter to the editor but sort of became an article.  
I ask that you check with me about an edited version - as I often find when my 
letters are edited, their meaning is changed in subtle ways.

If you would like this as an article, I could easily rework the first 
paragraph.  I want to acknowledge that it would take a lot of courage for you 
to print it.

Thanks for reading it.

Karla Hennig
4459 Park Ave.
Terrace BC
V8G 1T8

(250) 635-5463
(250) 638-1141 - fax
kjh@kermode.net  - email



I read Bishop Schultz's message in the January Canada Lutheran with interest.  
Much of what he says is valid but I believe he has missed a vital part of the 
equation which determines whether a member will stay in a church or leave.  
Yes, there are the dogmatic, and the crusading, but others, I believe, leave 
the church through a sense of exclusion.

Some time ago, I had dinner with a woman of the Jewish faith.  At that time she 
spoke of her work to make Judaism more "woman friendly".  Rather than leave 
their religion, she and others like her had determined to work from within for 
change.  Two years ago, I happened to meet that woman again.  "How goes the 
battle?" I asked.   She made a wry face and told me she had abandoned her work 
because the odds were too overwhelming. She had been forced to give up 
something: either her religious affiliation, or her feeling that, as a woman, 
she was a highly respected, valued, and equal member of her community.  So she 
was no longer involved, after over 15 years of working diligently to change the 
system from within.

I came to the Evangelical Lutheran Church for the same reasons.  Raised in a 
Missouri Lutheran Church, I changed churches as a teenager because, at that 
time, woman in the Missouri Synod were not allowed to vote.  Were, in my eyes, 
devalued.  When I came to the Evangelical Lutheran Church I felt at home.  

But it has not been paradise.  Many times over the years I have felt the 
pastors in various churches have not reflected my reality, and have not been 
able to speak to my spirit.  There has been too much distance.   I never walked 
away in protest, but I have fallen away through not being able to find the 
spiritual place where I can meet with others.

I want a church strong in grace theology, which works for Social Justice 
issues, and has a jubilant and intellectual congregation.  A church which lifts 
it's voice to sing joyfully, and is accepting and inclusive.  I have never had 
such a church, but I have seen glimpses of it, and during those times have 
worked hard to make it happen, giving whatever gifts I had, in time, talent and 
resources.

But there are times I feel so excluded.  Recently our congregation received a 
letter which discussed calling a new pastor.  The words were "We know how 
important it is to find the RIGHT MAN for the job" (emphasis mine).  Now the 
man who wrote this letter is a fine, caring member of the church council who 
works tirelessly on behalf of the congregation and for the disadvantaged in our 
community.  I know he never meant to be exclusionary;  none the less, that 
letter reflects a sad reality.

The Lutheran church has fine ideals about inclusiveness.  Then I look at the 
information I have about the Church at large which comes to me through Canada 
Lutheran.  I look at the bishops (all men), at the picture of the Stewardship 
Event (mostly men), at the Synod Council members (mostly men), at who controls 
the church (mostly men).  Fine, intelligent, caring men, I am sure, but men who 
cannot know or appreciate the female experience, and who therefore make 
decisions without understanding the reality of a large percentage of church 
membership.

I think of the women pastors I know, and reflect that not one of them has a 
full time call, although they are incredible and talented people who are more 
than capable of leading any congregation.  

And I know that, as Lutherans, we have failed.

I don't intend to walk away in protest, but I fear that, like my Jewish friend, 
I will become disheartened and overwhelmed.  At 44, I've been a proud feminist 
all my teenage and adult life, and have worked for women's causes.  Sadly, I 
have seen more movement in society at large than I have in the church.

I believe that Grace Theology is completely inclusive, because it invites 
everyone, without restrictions.  I wish our church were as inviting.

