


Is industriously washing all her blacks in preparation for festival.

is worried about her reflexive pronouns, though her subjunctive use is to die 
for …

Thinks festival is a bit like the universe … in the beginning there is 
nothing, which explodes, and keeps on expanding…

Mrs Evadne Cake was a medium, verging on small.

In the Beginning there was nothing, which exploded.

    -- (Terry Pratchett, Lords and Ladies)

And the child had a permanently runny nose and ought to be provided with a 
handkerchief or, failing that, a cork.

From the back, Vetinari looked like a carnivorous flamingo.

The maze was so small that people got lost looking for it.

Until an unfortunate axe incident, Gloria had been captain of the school 
basketball team.

It would be like installing smoke detectors in Hell.

Death was Nature's way of telling you to slow down.

They stared at them. Staring is one of the few things frogs are good at. 
Thinking isn't.

The difference between me and Neil in our attitude to movie projects is that he 
doesn't believe they're going to happen until he's sitting in his seat eating 
popcorn, and I don't believe they're going to happen.

Outright theft as a policy had never occured to him.

There are no inconsistencies in the Discworld books; ocassionally, however, 
there are alternate pasts.

Nanny Ogg looked under her bed in case there was a man there. Well, you never 
knew your luck.

is worried about her reflexive pronouns, though her subjunctive use is to die 
for …

One of the universal rules of happiness is: always be wary of any helpful item 
that weighs less than its operating manual.

Anyone can tell the truth, but only very few of us can make epigrams.

I would never die for my beliefs, because I might be wrong.

Patriotism is the willingness to kill and be killed for trivial reasons.

I love children, especially when they cry, for then someone takes them aw

I used to think that I was stupid, and then I met philosophers.

War does not determine who is right - only who is left.

So are all sports teams like sperm, trying to the first one to get to the egg?  



Is industriously washing all her blacks in preparation for festival.

He moved in a way that suggested he was attempting the world speed record for 
the nonchalant walk.

is thinking of attacking .. but she lacks the skills - being attacked by Karla 
is like being attacked by a damp tissue


He's really pushed back the boundaries of ignorance."

They may have been ugly. they may have been evil. But when it came to poetry in 
motion, the Things 



Karla is dabbling with fertility symbols


- NO-ONE GETS PARDONED FOR LIVING.

Ankh-Morpork had dallied with many forms of government a

All assassins had a full-length mirror in their rooms, because it would be a 
terrible insult to anyone to kill them when you were badly dressed.

Nature, in fact, abhors a lot of things, including vacuums, ships called the 
"Marie Celeste", and the chuck keys for electric drills.

many further offences of generalized abetting [..

A good bookshop is just a genteel Black Hole that knows how to read.

Lady Ramkin's bosom rose and fell like an empire.

- "What're quantum mechanics?"
- "I don't know. People who repair quantums, I suppose."

"Multiple exclamation marks," he went on, shaking his head, "are a sure sign of 
a diseased mind."



Getting an education was a bit like a communicable sexual disease. It made you 
unsuitable for a lot of jobs and then you had the urge to pass it on.

"Real stupidity beats artificial intelligence every time."

Everything starts somewhere, though many physicists disagree. But people have 
always been dimly aware of the problem with the start of things. They wonder 
how the snowplough driver gets to work, or how the makers of dictionaries look 
up the spelling of words.



is working on her bad spelling.  Good to have a lethal weapon in one’s 
arsenal. 



The Emperor had all the qualifications for a corpse except, as it were, the 
most vital one.

Brain cells come and brain cells go, but fat cells live forever.  ~Author 
Unknown

A waist is a terrible thing to mind.  ~Tom Wilson

agrees with Mark Twain that “There is a charm about the forbidden that makes 
it unspeakably desirable.”

"Do not act incautiously when confronting little bald wrinkly smiling men!"
.
She gave me the sort of look she would have given a leper she wasn't fond of


-- Magic armour is not all it's cracked up to be.



Time may be a great healer, but it's a lousy beautician.  ~Author Unknown

Inside every older person is a younger person wondering what happened.  
~Jennifer Yane

“It takes a long time to grow young.”  Pablo Picasso

Age is a high price to pay for maturity.- Tom Stoppard

As for Gussie Finknottle, many an experienced undertaker would have been 
deceived by his appearance and started embalming on sight

May have the age, but has seen no sign of the maturity as of yet …


A man's subconscious self is not the ideal companion. It lurks for the greater 
part of his life in some dark den of its own, hidden away, and emerges only to 
taunt and deride and increase the misery of a miserable hour.

e was a man who had made two chins grow where only one had been before, and his 
waistcoat swelled like the sail of a racing yacht.

You’re one of those guys who can make a party just by leaving it. It’s a 
great gift.’

nd her eye could have been used for splitting logs in the teak forests of 
Borneo.

Routine is the death to heroism.


He trusted neither of them as far as he could spit, and he was a poor spitter, 
lacking both distance and control.

				
It is a good rule in life never to apologize. The right sort of people do not 
want apologies, and the wrong sort take a mean advantage of them.”


He felt like a man who, chasing rainbows, has had one of them suddenly turn and 
bite him in the leg.

Golf, like measles, should be caught young.

If I had had to choose between him and a cockroach as a companion for a 
walking-tour, the cockroach would have had it by a short head.

All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence, and then success is sure.

knows actions may speak louder than words but not nearly as often.

thanks Char for the cheese ovaries the other night … oh, wait, didn’t she 
call them cheese ovaries with nuts?
