Right, all, because some (well, okay one) of you begged and others 
suggested, I decided to write about my "trip to Calgary" last weekend.

You all know that I'm part of the Pacific Mist Chorus .. which is affiliated 
with Sweet Adelines International .. which has this rule:  each chorus must 
attend a regional competition once every 3 years or you are stricken off the 
list (I have no idea what this means in SA terms but it's apparently a Terrible 
Thing).

So, this year, my chorus decided to go.

Before I go any further I have to note that SA and the army seem to have a lot 
in common.  There is a lot of discipline expected.  For example, we were to 
travel with our performance costume AS HAND LUGGAGE, to ensure no problems re: 
bags.  We were also to travel wearing "black pants (Karla wore capris and 
shocked a few), a bright shirt, black PMC jacket and 'SA type make up".  You 
all know my wardrobe .. out I went to buy a brilliant red top (in the pictures).

I'm a country mouse, don't get out of town very often and flying is still 
exciting for me.

There's something so satisfying sitting and looking down at glaciers and 
mountains that may never have had a foot set on them, and rivers and frozen 
lakes. My trip from Terrace to Vancouver was spent with my nose pressed against 
the glass and many appreciative sighs being heard by my seat mate who tried, 
unsuccessfully to engage me in conversation.

Flight from home was late which necessitated a wild dash from one gate to 
another but our trip to Calgary was uneventful and, regrettably cloudy ... 
though I did get a great look at the Rockies falling away to the foothills .. 
*awed sigh*. 

I could get used to staying at places like the Hyatt.  Ms. Country Mouse felt 
like a princess entering a lobby with comfy chairs, forelock tugging counter 
staff, "always on and always hot" coffee and tea for guests and a pool and well 
appointed exercise room on floor 18!

Though I shared a room with 2 other women (it would have been 3 but tenor, 
Ruth, was ill) I have to admit that there was still a "princess" feel about the 
place.

As an early riser, and in an attempt to not unduly irritate my room mates, my 
5:30 wakings translated into slipping up to the gym for a 30 minute workout, 
and then swimming for 30 minutes, relaxing in in the hot tub and then making my 
way to the lobby to sit with a book until such times as I dared go back to the 
room and disturb the sleeping beauties who looked at me in horror when I 
suggested that 9:00 a.m. was a good time to be up.

(Some of the choir members hadn't brought bathing suits, so I suggested we just 
hang a sign on the door of the pool "warning, naked 50+ year old women ... 
enter at your own risk"  and all go swimming together ....)

While spare time was limited, my room mates spent it shopping.  I'm not a 
shopper so I visited the Glenbow Museum for a magnificent morning of Karsh 
portraiture, a display of the wardrobe of warriors, weaving from Africa and 
other jaw dropping displays, or spent part of an afternoon doing a brisk walk 
down to the river and back. (this explains my limited wardrobe, I suspect.)

I also was lucky enough to have my dear friend Ruth come down from Edmonton so 
we could have an hour or so over coffee together and to meet up with former 
student, Mariette, who is still doing theatre after all these years!

As to the actual competition.

One of the things I have always known about Barbershop singing, is that it's 
more fun to do than to listen to.  One evening we attended the Quartet 
competition, and, though I was an hour late (meeting Ruth for coffee), I still 
had had enough by the end of the evening.

We attended one workshop on rhythm and tempo .. which was very well done but a 
bit simple.

We participated in the regional competition.

Competition day was very interesting.  

A 7:30 start of breakfast in our rooms, various types of rehearsals, hours of 
putting on make up, having it approved, adding the false eyelashes, moving from 
one room to the next, attending "stations" (including one which supplied 
Vaseline and cue tips to slather over your gums and teeth before going on) - 
for 6 minutes on stage.

Our choir, small by SA standards, did a fine C+ performance.  Not what we were 
hoping, but probably indicative of our most constant level.  There are times 
when our chorus can rise to a B or even a B+ performance, but we don't, as a 
group, seem to be able to consistently work as an ensemble; it's something we 
need to work on.  I was proud of us, however, as most women in our group love 
to sing but don't love to perform.  I had been besieged with stories of the 
last time they performed in competition and how stressful they found it and 
have made it my mission, over the last year, to instill theatre skills into the 
chorus.  

Though we didn't musically do as well as hoped, I was very satisfied in the 
work the chorus did in grounding, focusing their energy into the group and 
engaging the audience.  (I was appalled when I joined that the chorus had been 
instructed to ignore the audience!  What kind of performer sees an audience as 
an enemy?) I've not yet been able to move them from "it's all about me" to 
"it's about the music and performing together", but we're a lot closer than we 
were a year ago. 

The best part of the trip was the "pj party" type atmosphere that pervaded the 
whole weekend.  We were constantly in each other's rooms; we laughed and 
talked and sang, sang, sang together.   It was not unusual for me to be in 
bed and almost asleep and to hear a soft knock on the door and hear "gang sing 
in room 908".  I would, of course, immediately get up, and set off, clad only 
in a nightie, to said room to sing.

I flew in to Terrace at 6:52 on Sunday evening, to be met by Graham who whisked 
me up to the college to hear my old choir, the Northwest Singers, perform their 
spring concert.  It was a lovely, sunny evening and it was marvelous to be 
back in my little town,to know most of the people in the audience, to 
appreciate a different form of singing and to be back in my own life.

So there you have it... my singing weekend.

Individual letters to be sent out when life slows a little.

Much love and many hugs to everyone.

