filing cabinet


I had an interesting experience last night ....

In the basement there is a four drawer filing cabinet.  I believe I have had 
it since student days so it is old and holds the dross of an adult lifetime.

In the interests of "easier moving" I bit the bullet and started the 
interesting process of culling.
My Goodness!
Two of the drawers are old friends.  

In one I have all the notes and information I need for theatre activities.  
Ask me to run a workshop on voice, projection, intention, verbing, parts of the 
stage, lighting design, directing, auditions, status, actor coaching, or a host 
of other things and I can go to the drawer and pull out my workshop notes and 
make copies of the relevant handouts.   I re-vamp workshops from time to time, 
but the basics are always needed.  

Even though I still need much of that information I could rid myself of much of 
what was in that drawer.  Do I really have to haul 20 copies of the scene "a 
mad tea party" or the poem "rats" to Penticton?  What about the carefully 
selected actor scenes labeled "intimacy", "rejection", "levels" etc. etc.  
These are scenes I use to gauge the fine nuances of actors when they audition 
... but it has been years since I've actually used them.  One copy of each 
will do, and I can always get more copies made if I ever need them again.  I'm 
moving into unseen territory, I have no idea if I will ever be running 
workshops again.    
The second drawer is crammed full of vocal music.  At one time I was a much 
more organized person and if I needed to find a specific song I would merely 
nip into that drawer and look in the proper file.   In addition, music theory 
books, manuscript notepaper and other, little used,  music books are in that 
drawer.
Those were fairly simple.  

Then I turned to "the Other Drawers".
Oh my.  
The first thing that struck me is how long I've been in theatre.  I"m like 
those little white haired ladies I used to laugh at in my 20's when I attended 
Theatre BC Mainstage weeks and was one of the "bright young things".  

I've filled a box full of reading scrips that I had thought I would direct "one 
day".  They will go to the theatre teacher of the local high school, he might 
find them useful.  
And I've come across my director and SM books.  All of theatre is run on the 
premise that "one day I may be hit by a bus" so every backstage person has a 
book with all relevant information so someone else can step in and use "the 
book".  Stage Manager books are actually locked in the safe of a theatre each 
night of the run because THE BOOK is the most precious thing in any production. 
  I have a host of these ... I hadn't realized how many shows I've worked on 
.. and these don't include the ones at the REM Lee, because those were "work 
shows" and all that info was left at the theatre when I finished working there, 
ready for my replacement.  

In the 5 years I lived in Kitimat I directed 46 shows.  Many of these were one 
acts and were school shows (I was a drama teacher in the local high school) but 
I have the evidence of 46 shows of notes - still there.  
There is no earthly reason to keep any of these, the actors are long since 
grown up and gone, but what a memory walk it was to see the stumbling areas, 
the tools I used to get through the tough stuff, the actors notes I kept and 
the strategies I used to get the best out of those on stage.   

There were also letters and cards from a variety of students and other 
actors/techs over the years; such beautiful sentiments, it is hard to throw 
them away.  Also, scrap books of plays, call sheets from old shows, and 
newspaper reviews.  

I note that there is not one negative review in the pile.  Obviously my need 
to retain things was slanted.  I must have had negative reviews, I just never 
bothered to keep any of those.
And awards. 

Over 40 years in theater and you receive awards ... directing, acting, 
technical, lighting design, etc. etc.  If you had asked me I would have told 
you of my three big acting awards, but I had forgotten all the others.  I've 
long since given away the statues and the plaques, but I've kept the 
certificates.  Silly, really, a stack of papers declaring that, for that one 
performance, in that one festival, my work was the best.  And a subjective 
best at that.  I spent time going through the file and thinking of each show, 
and then turfed all that paper into the recycling bin.
And then there are the half finished plays I've never returned to, the original 
music that was sent to me by my "music father" Leonard - as we worked together 
to re-vamp his musical Belle Briggen Bay.  Composers of "a certain age" before 
the time of computers, had the most beautiful manuscript musical notation.  
Leonard's scores are like beautiful art work.
In one file, I found a bunch of short stories I wrote while I was living on the 
Queen Charlotte Islands.  This was before I had a computer, so the type 
written pages are there, with careful carbon copies, clipped together.   I've 
put them aside to be looked at in a moment of leisure.  I'm almost too scared 
to read them and have an impulse to throw them away unread.  

At this point I have a huge garbage bag full and the box of scripts but I had 
to stop last night.  I just couldn't make any more decisions - so the hardest 
stuff is still waiting to be culled.
Some years ago I came across my stack of love letters.  I had put them all 
together in a box and had tied a ribbon around them.  In a moment of madness I 
decided I no longer needed them, and burnt them up.  

I am so sorry now for that decision; I so often I wish I could re-visit them.  
On days I'm feeling low, it would be good to be able to visit that box, close 
my eyes and chose a letter at random and read the words of a man who had, at 
one time, felt the need to extoll my virtues and declare his love.  Middle 
aged, long time married women don't hear those things.  
My love letters were kept in that filing cabinet but I turfed them ... I hope 
that now I am making the right decisions about what to keep and what to throw.

