Dear Griff:

I always think of our letters as heart beats -  Ba dum (pause), Ba dum (pause), 
Ba dum (pause), Ba dum (pause),

Letter, return letter, pause, letter, return letter, pause … etc.  

And generally our rhythm is pretty strong and consistent, but I have to admit 
to dropping the baton (to switch metaphors) and suddenly realized that we were 
on life support and the machine was making a long, screechy 
“BEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEP” sound.  So, before the medics run in with the 
paddles and yell “CLEAR” I figured I better get things going again.

We are receiving our first snow fall of the year.  Oh, I know it won’t stay - 
not yet - but still, it is disquieting.  Now, because I am the prima donna of 
the universe and I KNOW that everything revolves around me, I have to take full 
responsibility for this event.

I caused this occurrence … in two ways…

Fact 1
Yesterday, I went out and raked the leaves in the back yard.   After 2 hours 
the back yard was done and I started on the side… but it was cold .. so I 
thought “oh, I’ll do the side and the front tomorrow” and went home and 
sank into a hot bathtub.  What was I thinking?  Of COURSE the fates wouldn’t 
allow me to actually get ready for winter!  If one is going to rake leaves, one 
must do it all in one day, or suffer the consequences.  Next spring I suspect 
I’ll be contending with mushy, half rotten leaves that SHOULD have been 
picked up in the fall.

Fact 2
After my bath I headed out to the grocery store and saw that Poinsettias were 
on sale. Now, though I don’t like to start decorating for Christmas until the 
first week in Advent, it has been my experience that the first Poinsettias 
ready are also the ones that are most hardy and long lasting.  So ….. I 
grabbed a beautiful white one for the dining room table and contemplated 
getting a red one for the living room. 

So OF COURSE the snow came.

I’m thinking a meal of hearty brown bread and sausage and lentil soup might 
be the right thing today.

We’re off to the launch of a poetry book by an acquaintance this evening .. I 
have no idea of why we were invited but I was planning to wear my magic shirt 
(the filmy one that makes me look thin, er … thin-ish) and CFM shoes .. both 
of which are not suitable for snow. 

As I’m typing this I’m glancing out the skylight at the two ravens who are 
sullenly perching on a maple branch overhead.  They are probably immensely 
irritated as well.  I am inordinately fond of ravens.

I’m fully aware that this has not answered your last letter, but I think 
it’s time to go and glower at the weather.

talk with you soon.

k
