Hello Griff:
 
Sorry I didn't write this morning.   I really don't know where time goes.. 
though I am embarked on a few projects that seem to take a lot of my time.. 
luckily I"m going through a "can't sleep" phase, so at least if I'm awake at 2 
in the  morning I am doing something productive.  And at the moment I'm at 
work, so I can't pull up your last email and respond ... so
 
.. on to other things ...
 
Like me.
 
During the last few weeks, Griff, I have had a couple of severe body blows to 
my ego.  I won't bore you with the details, but in both my personal and my 
professional life, I have had altercations with people which were unpleasant 
and really rough on me.  Some things I brought upon myself through inattention 
to detail and just being stupid - acting without thinking.  I'm okay with 
those.  I abjectly and humbly apologised and things sort of settled down - as 
one friend wrote to me "I was going to write a shocked and dismayed letter to 
you .. and was contemplating on how to write and send something to YOU ..... 
the queen of S and D letters."
 
But others came about without warning, and I was completely blindsided.  Those 
are are the ones that sit in your stomach and burn.
 
Now, generally I tend to let such things go, figuring that life is too short to 
brood .. and I can usually just move on.  Such were the circumstances of these 
things, however, that I am really angry and started to indulge in some 
absolutely lovely revenge fantasies.
 
You know the kind...
 
where I am vindicated and happy
 
and everyone else is dead. 
 
BUT, because of the "new earth" cd's I listened to last year I'm finding that I 
can't really do that anymore.  Some little voice says, "Now, Karla, you are 
only reacting this way because your ego is bruised.  If you let it go, don't 
try to fight back, things will be better.   You don't have to prove you are 
right."
 
Which is okay for a little while ... until my anger rears its ugly head again.
 
Oh, Griff, Griff, how old am I going to have to get to start being wise?
 
So, wondering if I had upset some part of the universe, I decided, instead of 
dwelling on bruised feelings and nursing grudges, I would spread some light in 
the world. I am not a big enough woman to manifestly and graciously forgive 
those who have irritated the HECK out of me ... so instead I went to the store 
and bought 3 dozen roses and dropped them off at 6 different friends' houses.  
These friends have nothing at all to do with the irritations I have been 
suffering, but they are dear and they always make me feel loved and loveable, 
so I thought I would let them know that I loved them. 
 
Surprisingly the anger that has been burning in me for days, is a little big 
smaller.  I still need to address some of these things, as the professional 
ones have to be dealt with - because I work with two of these people all the 
time.  We don't  have to like each other, but we have to find a common ground 
on which to exist in a supportive and maintanable way.  And I have to address 
the concerns of my sister, who is just angry and over worked and is lashing 
out.  But, at the moment I can't figure out what to do about her.  She, you 
will remember, is my tornado sister, and I'm never quite sure if she is STILL 
angry after she has had one of her temper tantrums, or if she now feels fine.   
All I know is  ... I am still dealing with it.
 
While I was on a roll anyway, I decided to send flowers to mom.  I called her 
the next day and talked with her for half an hour and she never mentioned the 
flowers once.  So, I called the florist and asked why they had neglected to 
deliver the flowers.
 
The flowers had, they thought, been delivered.
 
So I called mom to be sure.
 
"Oh yes," she said, "they came yesterday.   I forgot about them"
"Oh, so where do you put them ...?"
"On my little table, beside my chaiar.  It's a big arrangement ... probably too 
big for my little table"
"Well, mom,  you could put them on the other table"
"No!  Flowers go on my little table"
"okay, well, hope you enjoy them"
"I would enjoy them more, if they had put them in a smaller vase .. it just 
would set things off more."
"Well, would you like me to call them and ask them to bring you a different 
one?"
"No, no, I'll suffer through with this one."
"I just thought you would like some Christmas colour in the house."
"Well, I don't know what I'll do with the vase when they flower die.  More junk 
for me to hang on to."
 
I tell you, there are some times it's better just to say goodbye.
 
My ego is really getting a work out these days.
 
I  hear the rattling of band students (I'm at work, doing the second night of 
White Christmas) so I should go and hunt down the key I leant to a student 
yesterday that never came back (next time I'll demand he leave a shoe as 
hostage.)
 
FOH people should arrive soon, so I'll have to train them up for tonight.
 
k. 
 

