
Some many years ago, in the principality of Moldavia, there was a village. It 
was a commonplace hamlet, peopled with regular folk.   The men worked in the 
fields by day and drank in the rathskeller at night.  The women worked in 
fields by day and in their homes morning and night.  The children worked when 
watched and played when they could.  The life of the village came from the 
Rusava River, which flowed along the lower section of the town, bringing water 
and nutrients and strangers to the small hamlet.

One fine summer day a stranger arrived in the village. This stranger was 
neither old nor young.  He was not tall, nor was he short. He was not thin or 
over fed.  His name was Rodya and he quietly set up a shelter in the woods, 
near the marsh, outside the hamlet, carrying his water and his food over the 
fields each evening before he retired.

It was a good summer and many hands were needed.  Rodya quickly found work with 
the men and ate with them at noon, as food was brought to the fields so as to 
not miss an hour’s work.  He could turn his hand to many things.  Hauling 
stones to build walls, repairing implements, any kind of agriculture, and 
especially carving wood.  In his hands wood glowed and changed, seemed to 
soften as he molded it into whatever shape he chose.

It was during the noon meal that the women noticed Rodya’s peculiar 
obsession.  As they unwrapped food and poured out tea, his eyes would fasten on 
their breasts and linger.  It was not the lustful gawk of the depraved but the 
measured and appreciative gaze of the artist.  As he watched their breasts move 
under their chemises, his hands would caress the cup he held, linger over a 
rounded and curvaceous stone, or fondle a piece of smooth wood.  And he made a 
sound.  Softly, like the purr of a contented cat, or the echoing of a muted 
frog’s croak, a deep, and hollow and satisfied rumbling came from his throat.

And his look was all encompassing.  Not for Rodya only the pert and up thrust 
bosoms of the young woman.  His glance would fall on these shapes with 
appreciation, but his look would also embrace and revere the sagging chest of 
an older widow, the wrinkled skin of the aged, the pear like droop which spoke 
of nursing so many children.

It was the young women, not yet paired and so vigilant and alert to any 
suggestion of sexuality, who first noticed his glance.

“Dirty old pervert” they would say, as they tossed their hair and stomped 
away.

But appreciation and adoration are seductive and they took care to expose more 
of their white skin, and more of their cleavage than normal.

It was the older women who most cherished the glances.

“Knows how to please a woman, that one”, they would say to each other as 
they heard the now familiar rumble resonate around them. “Takes his time, 
likes to explore”. 

The men did not notice the gaze.  Their women, once so young and full of 
promise, were well known to them.  They were bent with work and care and 
children.  They no longer inspired in their men passions.  No one, thought the 
men, would notice the wives or mothers or widows or spinsters of the town.

The fall was a busy time, with harvesting and butchering and making ready for 
winter.  But winter brought long dark days and little to do.  Women still had 
their children, their spinning and weaving and mending and knitting but the 
men, once livestock were tended to, spent more and more time in the 
rathskeller, as they did each winter.

Rodya, who never drank, filled the winter months by being helpful.  A mended 
shutter here, a newly carved ladle there.  He charged little and was content to 
sit in the kitchens of different homes, working slowly and in conversation with 
the women of the household.  And always he looked and revered. 

And the women bloomed.

When their men returned from the rathskeller a little drunk and fumbled for 
their wives in the dark they were told,

“go slowly, be more gentle”
“here, hold this, like a delicious peach just for you”
“feel the skin on my thighs … see how soft and warm I am”

The men were puzzled, this was new … it took care and attention and skill.  
And still they were told,

“kiss my neck”
“the hollow of my collar bone”
“bite my earlobe”
“lick here”
“taste there”
“stroke that”
“nuzzle this”
“hold me this way”
“embrace me”

And the men began to worry.

This was new.  Had they not pleased their women in the past?  Why were so many 
demands being given to them now?

But as men keep such things to themselves, they merely brooded and were sullen.

And the women said,

“not tonight if you will not take time”
“that’s not what I like”
“you’re going too fast”
“I want something new”

And the men were scared.  What if they could not perform?  What if the women 
laughed or scorned their skills?

And, despite their inclination, conversation in the rathskeller turned to a 
man’s prowess in bed.  And the men learned that it was not just their wives 
who had changed, it was all the women in the village.

And the men decided to take a stand.

No more advances, they said.  No more intimacy, until the women learned to 
appreciate what they were offered.

So the men withdrew from their beds and waited for the women to approach.

But the women said, 

“I can touch myself”
“see what my fingers can do”
“the widow has a large bed, perhaps I will share with her”
“another woman will know my body as it is like her own”
“this is pleasure without the fear of more children”
“she is like me”
“I am like her”

And they said,

“I will go slowly and be gentle”
“here, I will hold this, like a delicious peach”
“oh, your thighs!  so soft and warm”

And the men yearned

And the women blossomed.  To be revered and adored.  To be respected and loved. 
 These things make a woman exciting and exquisite.  They carried themselves as 
women who were cherished and honoured. Their presence made them enticing and 
alluring. 

And the men saw the wives and mothers and widows and spinsters of the village 
in a new way.  They were no longer bent and wrinkled and careworn.  They were 
women of character and purpose; wise and marked with age, but with marks to 
make them enchanting and voluptuous.

And the men said,

“come back to me”
“I will be slow”
“how can I please?”
“what would pleasure you?”
“does this make you happy?”

And the women returned to their men – and throughout the village there was a 
low rumble. Softly, like the purr of a contented cat, or the echoing of a muted 
frog’s croak, a deep, and hollow and satisfied rumbling came from the 
women’s throats.  And the rumble jumped to the throats of the men and it 
leapt and roared and gloried in its sound and its inception.

Some weeks later, as spring was coming to the village and it was time to work 
in the fields again, it was discovered that no one had seen Rodya for some days.

A trip to his shelter revealed nothing.

No clothes or provisions were there.  

Only, in a corner, was a small, wooden, beautifully carved frog with a mallet 
in its mouth – which made..

the soft rumble of fulfillment.
 

