Bed - Is he gone, table?  Table? Table? Table, I asked you .. is he gone?

Sofa - well you can see as well as we can, Bed, he's gone.  He shut the door a 
few seconds ago.

B -  I wasn't talking to you, Sofa, don't butt in.

Table - Yes, Bed, he's gone.

B -  but is he really gone?  Will he come back? I mean he's been in and out 
this morning like a revolving door.

S - I think that's it for now, I think this time he really is gone.  Goodness I 
feel clean, he hasn't brushed my velvet in a long long while.  I feel like a 
new Love seat all over again.  

T - well I have to say I agree with you.  I haven't had flowers on me for ... 
well since before his mother died, I think.  But he was bustling all over today 
.. arranging these roses.  Don't you think the colour rather brings out the 
grain in my wood?

S - yes, very pretty.  How about you, bed, I can't see you with my back to you 
.. are you all fancy as well?

B - well, I'm made at any rate.  Bout time, can't remember last time he made 
me.  Mother always did when she was alive.  That was a woman who appreciated 
fine furniture.  She's get up and make me first thing ... changed the linen too 
... always fresh ironed sheets.  Things have definitely gone down hill since 
she died.

Chair - we've come down in the world that's for sure.

Sofa - well that's all fine with me.  We were getting stale in the old place .. 
years and year in the same room, with the same view.  We may be a bit more 
crowded but it is cozy here.  And we made the cut.  When mother died he could 
have sold us all off, but he chose us when he moved to this new place.

B - yeah, cramped and crowded I call it ..

Table - oh, lighten up, Bed, it's a new experience for us all.

B - a bad one

Sofa - I don't know.  We never even knew what you looked like in the old place, 
you were on a different floor.  Now we're all cozy here together.  Not that I 
see much of you ... but I did see you when they carried you in, and have to say 
mother did have good taste.  You have lovely lines, you know.

B - a lot of good it's done me.  He's been sleeping in old, sweaty sheets and 
hasn't dusted me for ages.

T - well, you are dusted now.  We all are.  Great things are afoot.  Flowers, 
newly made bed, frantic cleaning and returning ever so often this morning to 
make sure things are just right.  I suspect we'll be seeing "the woman" tonight.

B - hmmff
Sofa - come on, Bed.  The man's been lonely for a long while.  Hasn't seen 
anyone since mother died and he moved here.  It's good for him.

B - hmfff.  I don't hold with that kind of thing.  I was happy when mother was 
widowed, much easier on my springs.

Chair - oh you old curmudgeon.  Anyone seen the woman?

Sofa - I caught a glimpse of her once or twice.  She lives down the hall, and 
they've loitered in the hallway with the door open.  So, is it drinks or dinner 
he's having with her tonight?

CT - probably dinner ... why else the preparations.  He'll bring her home for 
"a drink".

B - We WEREN'T talking to YOU, coffee table.  You keep your mouth shut

CT - I was only ...

B - butting in here, nobody wants you, you know.

Ct - but I

B - mother had a perfectly fine coffee table, but no, HE had to sell it, and 
bring in a piece of trash.

CT - I am not trash, the finest designers ...

T - now, now, don't take any notice of bed, coffee table, he just doesn't like 
change

CT -  the finest designers use Scandinavian ideas because of ..

S - yes, my dear, yes.  You are very smart.  All sleek and sexy.  Not like us, 
with our fussy, neo-Elizabethan legs.  Still, I've always thought I had 
particularly fine legs ..... all curvy and carved.

Table - (clears her throat)

S - but of course, YOUR legs, my dear, all straight and modern, have a beauty 
of their own.

Chair - positively sexy, from my point of view.  

B - that's enough from you, chair, you're a Johnmy come lately too, and you 
only survived on sufferance.  YOU could be easily replaced any time.

C - no, no, I'm just saying she is a very sexy coffee table, and we should 
appreciate her.  And what do you mean LATELY, I was part of mother's house for 
twenty years.  

B - A mere babe.  I was bought when she first got married.  I've been mother's 
consolation and friend all her adult life.  She died in my slats.  So don't 
think a mere twenty years makes you an established member of the furniture 
community.  And as for Coffee Table,  she wasn't part of mother's house, she 
should keep her mouth shut

CT -  I have no intention of speaking to YOU at any rate.  


 
