
I'm wondering what it would have been like to write before we had computers. in 
some ways fantastic, as there would have been all this surplus paper for one to 
rip out of a typewriter or a notebook and crumple dramatically before throwing 
it across the room. 

I believe I would have purchased a goat ... to eat all the failures. "my goat 
is raised on failures" one could say, while scratching him (it would have to be 
a him, and a very smelly him) behind the ears. 

more goat thoughts. 

Was "ruminating" on them all day

I generate a bunch of paper with the computer; had I bought a goat when I 
started writing, by now I would have a HERD of goats.

I'd be having second and third generations of goats; by now they would be 
creating their own little sub herds ... depending on what they were fed. 

My herds would be an attraction in Terrace. "come see Karla's goats of failure" 
people would say to their city visitors ... "it's especially fun during feeding 
time. Even even though they cost her hours of time and paper, she won't sell 
any, won't part with them. Says people have to raise their OWN goats and feed 
them their OWN special failures." 

If you were there on a good day, I just might give a tour. 

"In that far pen over there," I would say "you see those goats that keep 
falling over? I call those "Karla's Collapses, best to keep away. The Atrocious 
Abortions are over there, and up on the hill, just near the stream you see the 
Wonderful Wrecks ... they look much nicer from a distance ... when you get too 
close you see the flaws in their structures. 

The Delicious Defeats are the stalwart ones you don't want to cross, they tend 
to hang out with the Fabulous Flops, but are more moody. Get depressed. 

Be careful around those trees in the middle of the field, the Impulsive 
Implosions might be dispersed though the area and can do some serious damage if 
you aren't on your toes. The Marvellous Misadventures are pretty easy to spot, 
they'll have fallen into a ditch somewhere, or have their horns caught in a 
typewriter ribbon tree. They tend to be ineffectual and harmless anyway but do 
keep an eye open for Reckless Ruins, you don't want to get run over. Delicate 
Duds are pretty but hard to spot, they generally hide until they know you 
well." 

"oh LOOK" a small child might say "there's a unicorn in that field" 

"ummmmm" I hedge, "I think there are a few, small and very weak unicorns about 
in the very back but they are fragile and might fool us and turn into a new 
form of goat at any time." 

At which point the child's face will crumple. "no, no, that's okay" I console, 
"It's not about having a herd, it's about the excitement of trying."

