I've been meaning to write to you for a few days now, as I've been milling 
about with thoughts on grieving.

It suddenly hit me that it is only possible to grieve when you have time and 
rest.

When Robert passed away I was in India.  I was sad that day but tried not to 
share with my tour buddies, they didn't need that baggage.

I got home and the next day went to Robert's memorial which I thought was 
pretty bad and after Susan and I went out for mojitos to remember and celebrate 
him.

During this visit to mom I have been overrun by Robert memories, sometimes they 
are almost debilitating.  If you asked me how much time I spent with Robert I 
would say not much, but I did see him every year and some years we had 
'adventures'. In fact most times with him were memorable, even when it was just 
lunch and a walk round Stanley park.  Filled with idea talk and lots of 
laughter.

But I have been thinking of the week we ran away to Seattle to see the Tut 
exhibition, the two weeks we spent in Toronto in our twenties, the week in 
Quallicum when we stayed at a funky hotel and went out dancing every night.

This was a bad fall. I lost two aunts in October and Robert in early November. 
I was thinking that there are two ways I deal with loss.

There are some people, like the aunts, who have been in my life forever, their 
absence is strange.  It is like my life is a ball filled with many objects.  
I'm used to the things in it and constantly add stuff.  When something leaves 
the ball seems strange.

But losing Robert or my dad means the ball balances differently.  If I were to 
toss it, the whole structure would be out of kilter, a fundamental shift.

I'm okay, but I find that I'm doing something, taking mom shopping, or doing 
her laundry and suddenly I get this realization that Robert is gone and I feel 
like the ground under my feet is unstable, I have to concentrate on talking 
normally or on just putting one foot in front of the other, then in a minute or 
so, that visceral feeling, that I can actually feel in my gut, leaves, and 
everything is normal again.  I find myself longing to write to him, to call 
him, it seems so strange that he isn't here when he WAS ALWAYS THERE BEFORE.  
How DARE he not be here now?

Anyway, my time with mom was tinged with those feelings and she was also a 
little depressed because two more people of her generation were also gone.  We 
did have a nice time but there was this cloud over us both.

Hoping I can call you tonight to chat, just need someone to share with.

