Once upon a time there were two guardian angels.
They had been with their clients for a long, long time so things were well 
sorted and the clients' lives were doing just fine.

Angel 1 was not only a good guardian, keeping her gal safe and relatively 
happy, but she was a whiz at helping to find EXACTLY the the right earrings and 
shoes whenever the client had a party to attend or a work function at which she 
had to shine.
Angel 2 was also a good guardian, and had a gentle way of whispering into her 
client's ear whenever "boredom  or anxious eating" reared its ugly head.  In 
addition, she was skilled in rush hour traffic pathways and helping to find cab 
drivers who were efficient and courteous.
But being a guardian angel can be stressful.  No matter how clever and 
organized you are, clients have sudden fancies, and put themselves into any 
number of strange situations.  Constant vigilance comes with a cost, and 
sometimes you need a bit of R and R.
So it was not surprising that both angels were sent to a heavenly all inclusive 
to have a bit of relaxation.  There they enjoyed two weeks of cloud 
meditation, took tours which included such perks as "flying with wild cherubs" 
or spent their evenings enjoying concerts by past members of the Mormon 
Tabernacle Choir ... "The Largest Heavenly Choir Ever .. and Still Growing".  

They were kept scrupulously away from the Pearly Gates and the attendant 
anxious incomers who made so many stupid etiquette gaffes when they first 
arrived that even the most seasoned angels squirmed with discomfort.  If they 
were so inclined, they could attend lectures by some of the best minds of the 
past.   Jane Austen debating Mary Shelly on women's rights, or Marx and Jung 
discussing the state of the human soul.
They could also go on tours of hell, and see the sights ... the volleyball 
games played by all those popes ... who happened to be perpetually 9 months 
pregnant, and experiencing back labour, the touching scenes of Elvis and his 
alien buddies, or Beethoven - NOT losing his hearing but having only a set of 
bagpipes to play, being the most popular.

It was a fun two weeks.
All holidays pall after a bit, though, and soon the two angels were sent back 
to their clients, refreshed and ready to resume their gentle diligence.
But all was not as it had been.
Tough times call for tough measures and lack of belief and heavenly economics 
had reduced the coffers of the Guardian Angel bureau to a mere whisper of it's 
former self.  Available temps for guardian angels was at an all time low.  
The replacement GA's willing though they may have been, were not seasoned or 
experienced, and while neither of their clients had died or lost a limb, the 
well tempered tenure of their lives had been disrupted.
Angel 1's client had broken off her long time relationship with a perfectly 
acceptable, and benign "live in boy friend" and spent her time crying in her 
bed, and resolutely refusing any party invitation or work related workshop.  
There was absolutely no call for perfect earrings or darling little sandals to 
give excitement and spice to the work day.  

Angel 2's gal had been involved in a semi-serious car accident. Though she had 
walked away from the crash, she was now "car shy" and ducked when anything 
motorized came into view.  There was little chance of getting her into a taxi, 
no matter how charming the driver.  She has also gained 10 pounds from stress 
eating.
Clearly .. Something Had To Be Done


k




