Recently I received one of those “know yourself” quizzes from a friend.  
One of the questions was

Q:   “Where on earth do you most like to be?”  

I didn’t have to think about this one -  

A:  “backstage, just before a show begins”

As I am presently the manager of the REM Lee Theatre in Terrace, I get this 
experience a lot – and it is always amazing.  There you are, audience in 
place, waiting to give the cue to start the show.  No matter if the show is a 
bunch of local primary children who are scared to step out on the stage, or a 
professional dance company which is used to dancing in the biggest and best 
venues in the country – the thrill is always there.

Part of the excitement is not knowing what is going to happen next.  Sometimes 
a truck pulls in at the theatre at 6:30 in the morning, and we spend all day, 
building their set, focusing their lights, and setting their sound levels, 
until the magic hour of “show time”.  It is only then that we watch our 
work take shape.  

Sometimes a local group books the theatre for days, and we watch them adjust 
their dance or movement to the confines of our stage, and suggest to them ways 
to use our equipment to highlight the very best in their productions.  No 
matter what the show – you are never really ready, and you know that, because 
it is a live performance, anything can and will happen.

In the three years I’ve been at the Lee my crews and I have:  built one half 
of a “hockey rink” which included bleachers, back boards and part of the 
ice, put together a moving “marble” set  – which consisted of over 700 
lbs of set pieces – all of it which had to be placed on rollers and move 
effortlessly around the stage, run hundred of miles of cable to microphones and 
monitors for pianos, voices, brass instruments and drum kits, ripped up 
tablecloths to mark dimmers – so we could re-patch lights in the dark during 
a show, “flew” material, ropes, windows and doors – so scenes could 
change in seconds, climbed ladders, changed gels, re-hung lights, patched and 
re-patched sound board, and striven to ensure that audiences get the very best 
show possible.

There have also been emergencies.  We’ve had to change lighting instruments 
during a performance when a bulb blew up, turn circuits on and off because we 
suspected we were scorching a curtain, swap out a CD player when our own died 
during a show, stuff the nostrils of an actor of with cotton because he 
developed a nose bleed just before he was about to go on, fix costumes – 
while still on the dancers, with gaff tape and hot glue and deal with any 
number of crises.   

Here in Terrace we are privileged to have so many fine performances come to our 
theatre.   We have hosted musicians like Oscar Lopez, Pavlo, Loreena McKinnet, 
the New York Youth Symphony and Barrachois, had famous Acting Company 
productions such as “2 Planks and a Passion” from Nova Scotia and the 
Vancouver Arts Club, and saw the birth of a new, local First Nations Theatre 
Company – which first performed in our theatre.  

We are a venue for local talent.  From elementary school Christmas Concerts, to 
Senior High Musicals, the local Symphony and Community Band our stage offers 
wonderful things to our audiences.   

So, next time you are in a theatre, as the house lights go dim to signal the 
beginning of a performance, think of us lucky few, who are able to watch and 
run the show from behind the scenes.  


