CBC parties we have known.

Dear Carolina and Chris:

We’ve been living in the northwest for a long time.

AND we’ve been CBC listeners for even longer.

But we’ve always had a special relationship with the Prince Rupert bureau.

We’ve had the “let’s invite Susan Cardinal out to cover our show” party 
(she came, too, and was charming).

We’ve had the “let’s make Don Genova’s food” party which was fun and 
fattening.

We’ve had the “let’s have Christie Luke read Christmas Carol because she 
seems like a funky woman and we need to meet her” party

We’ve had the “let’s celebrate that James Evans is finally gone” party 
- (NO MORE LAME JOKES, TORTURED SEGUAYS AND CONSTANT HOCKEY TALK - we hoped)

We’ve had the “OH NO, Russell Bowers is leaving us” wake … as Russell 
was not only fun and fast on the radio, but his banter covered a wide range of 
topics.

We are now seriously considering the “let’s turn off the CBC morning show 
once and for all” party.

Much as we like to know about temperatures, weather forecasts and local 
highways, we CAN get that information off the net. And, quite frankly, none of 
us can stand to hear too much more hockey talk. 

There is a sports update every hour, SURELY the two of you can think of 
something else to talk about besides hockey?  I couldn’t believe it the other 
day when we had to learn that Chris was dismayed that he turned on the TV and 
had the wrong day and there wasn’t a game on.

IN OTHER WORDS, EVEN WHEN THERE WASN’T A GAME, CHRIS FOUND A WAY TO TALK 
ABOUT HOCKEY!!!  

We listen to CBC because it is supposed to reflect our region and our country 
back to us.

There are SO many things happening in my town alone which are fascinating and 
fun.  I am sure that every other town along hwy 16 has similar stories.  I 
would much rather hear about the cinnamon buns at a local bakery that you ate 
this morning (which is not, admittedly terribly exciting) than another tortured 
rehash of what happened in the hockey world.  Believe me, the people who care 
about hockey already know, and those of us who don’t care about hockey resent 
the time you two take to rehash it over, and over and over again.

Karla Hennig (and many, many friends)
Terrace, BC


