>  
> You do seem to in fact have a small house, but from what I have seen, it is 
beautifully decorated.  I must say I LOVE the painting scheme.  I am actually 
considering something similar for our own house.  I cannot recall, though: are 
your ceilings the same as the walls in each room, or are they white?
  
It would probably seem a LOT larger if we had les STUFF everywhere.
As you have noted, our house IS small.  For good reason ... I WANTED a small 
house.

Until we moved to Terrace we lived in apartments or small houses ... and once, 
we rented a larger house.  I noted lots of things ....

1.  a too small place is always untidy and one is always moving things to get 
to other things
2.  a too big house means you create more and more shelves to house STUFF
3.  G needs a place that is separate, and that can be closed off so he can 
leave piles around.
4.  open space living doesn't work if one of the people in the house is a 
"dropper".
5. when I come home I can tell where G has been by following the "droppings" 
around the house ....

When we moved to Terrace and contacted a real estate person these are the 
things we asked for ...

1.  a place with magic

that was the only requirement.

What I thought would be nice, but not necessary were:

1.  a "mud" or "entrance" room - so people could take their shoes and coats off 
and not track stuff into the living room.
2.  a place with few closets - fewer closets, less stuff.  When I start finding 
there is no room to store stuff, I know it is time to get rid of the excess.
3.  bookcases, or a place to build book cases

Our place is 750 sq feet on the main floor ... living room, dining room, 
kitchen, bathroom and two bedrooms (one of which has been turned into a music 
room)  It also had two enclosed porches .... the one at the front is "as is" 
still.  The one at the back we extended and it is now our "sun room" and the 
room we use the most because of the windows.  Also because it opens on to the 
deck.

when we bought the house we had no idea we would have a child ... but it was 
good for one child.  Two would have been crowded. 

We have finished the attic (300 sq. feet), and put in another bathroom.  It is 
now contains our bedroom, the second bathroom and my computer room.  I like 
having it, as we can retire upstairs and leave the entire main floor to Sandy 
and his friends. 

The ceilings on the main floor are white ... they are the combining visual link 
between all the rooms.  In the attic, the walls ARE the ceiling, so they extend 
to the top and the colour bounces on itself, so is more vibrant.
>  
  
>   
 


