I could have danced all night.

It was a time of optimism; of knowing that dances, speeches, marches, and 
protests could change the world.  A time of late evening disputes over cups of 
cappuccino and thimbles of high test Marsala in small coffee shops on 
Vancouver’s Commercial Street.  Of all night debates about the state of the 
world and drunken early morning skinny dipping in English Bay.  

One Halloween, when my relationship with my current boyfriend, Danny, was 
surviving only because of our dedication to some particular cause, a friend 
threw a “come as your favorite socialist” party.

Danny, dressed as a Soviet hockey player (I can’t remember which one) and I, 
dressed as a Comic Book character named “Olga, the spy” (complete with 
bustier, fishnet stockings, and high heels) entered a smoke filled dungeon of 
Karl Marxs, Louise Bryants, Rosa Luxemburgs, Lenins, and Trotskys.
 
We were late and irritated with one another.  Whenever we disagreed, working 
class Danny threw my middle class background in my face.  As we entered the 
room, he murmured,  “not only are you bourgeois, you’re plain, not 
pretty”, and held my arm a bit too firmly, before releasing me and joining 
the true female comrades at the end of the room.  

We were obviously due for a fight.  

I couldn’t face it.

As Danny was at the drinks table, I went to the dance floor.  I remember 
pounding beats … the Castro Samba, the Robert Mugabe Waltz, Mao’s Merengue. 
 Our passion, our dedication, our certainty that we were right about this 
magnificent but difficult world, came through our bodies. 

There was only music, the pounding beat, smoke, flickering candles, sweat, 
darkness.  

After a while I found myself dancing with a Soviet hockey player.  Not my 
Danny, who remained glued to the booze, other, more adoring females, and 
shouted debate at the end of the room, but with a shy, stammering young man, 
whom I had been only vaguely aware of.  Someone from the fringes of our group. 

I remember the strength of his forearms, the smell of his neck, his long hair 
brushing my face.  I remember the exhilaration of thigh against thigh, the 
intimacy of a shared joint, the thrill of furtive kisses, and not wanting to 
let go.  

I remember dancing through the night.

In that sad, after glow of the real party, when there are only determined 
stragglers who continue to bicker and debate, my new hockey player and I were 
still on the dance floor, still weaving through the beat, unable to imagine 
moving on.  Danny had long since left with some other woman, as was his custom; 
that didn’t seem to matter much anymore.

I don’t remember how I broke away, but I do remember walking, in stiletto 
heels, the twenty some blocks to my apartment.  

Alone …

Sometimes, all we need is a nudge .. to end one part of an old life, and have 
the confidence to not plan the future.

Somehow, over the evening, the old hockey player had become a thing of the past.

And, the new hockey player, as luscious and full of promise as he seemed, was 
obviously not answer.

But I was fresh and excited, wanting the embracing night to go on, feeling free 
and powerful.

Looking forward to whatever would come next.

