Laundry Chutes and cats


I got home from the gym today and decided I need a laundry chute.  

At present my "laundry chute" is the door (and stairway) going to the basement. 

I undress, open the basement door and fling the clothes down the stairs, hoping 
to get them into the laundry baskets that perch expectantly at the bottom.  On 
idealistic days I have 2 baskets optimistically lounging there, trusting that 
the clothes will fall into the proper "light" or "dark" containers.

The firing method varies from happy and carefree - "DOWN go the clothes!  
Maybe the laundry elves will stir themselves and do something with the 
accumulated mass" to downtrodden "oh look - there is such a jumble down there 
I'll have to jump from the third step to the floor"

But if one had a laundry chute!

Just think!  

One wouldn't have to stand naked at the head of the stairs (in the middle of 
the hallway - on the main floor) but could take one's clothes off in the 
bedroom and open a discrete door with a pipe that would carry the offending 
garments right to the basement.  The laundry elves would WANT to live in the 
chute - they would consider it their duty to keep their home clean so would do 
the wash at regular intervals.  They might even take things out of the dryer 
before they had gotten all wrinkled and disgusting.

People wouldn't have to jump over the mass at the bottom when going down to get 
a jar from the pantry.  

There might be a smidgen of order in the chaos which is "The Basement". 

Well, we can but dream.

On to other things.

I took a good look at poor Pumpkin today.  If possible he is even thinner and 
more ratty looking than when we got home from holidays.

Two years ago, at his yearly check up, the vet said "this old guy's organs are 
shutting down.  You might think of putting him down, he certainly won't last 6 
months."

He has beat the odds but I think his time is near.

If he weren't such a contented cat at times I could steal myself to do it, but 
he loves so many things .... the juice from a can of tuna, to sit in a lap and 
quietly fart (cat farts are really foul) while holding your wrist with his 
paw.  To rub his head on your chin while he power purrs, to sit on the 
computer keyboard when you are trying to type, or on the book in your lap when 
you are trying to read.  

These things seem to bring joy to his life.

We have had 4 cats in total during our married life.

Fidel took off the day before he was to get "fixed" and we never saw him 
again.  We wandered the highways and byways of Masset village but he took off 
into the bird sanctuary and was never seen again.

His sister, Che, lived up to her name as a revolutionary and never followed any 
rules. It was her contention that it was against the United Nations Declaration 
of Feline Rights to ban her from going on the table and counters and was highly 
put out when she was pushed off them.  She quickly argued her way into 
sleeping on the bed - even though we had agreed that we would never allow an 
animal on the bed.  In fact, she would start out at the foot of the bed and in 
the mornings had managed to work her way between us, enjoying the hear from two 
bodies.

Lord Denning, being an older cat when we he came to us, never did try to train 
his new "staff"; perhaps his old ones had disappointed him and he didn't have 
the energy to try again.  He contented himself with claiming all the rights 
Che had won and with embarrassing us whenever possible (bringing in almost dead 
birds when I was entertaining bird enthusiasts, spraying one neighbour's new 
flowering cherry as soon as she planted it - while I was chatting with her in 
the yard, and resolutely using her front flower garden as a litter box, even 
there were so many other places he could have used).

Pumpkin was just a year old when he came to us and set about training us with a 
tenacity which was scary in a cat.  I know we have disappointed him and he is 
frustrated that he has to show us where his food is Every Single Day.  He also 
finds our insistence on brushing him troublesome and thinks we make much too 
much of his bringing up hair balls on furniture, bed and newly waxed and 
polished hardwood floors.

But I think his time with us is coming to an end.  

He is on the "weekly plan" as I only buy a week's worth of food at a time these 
days and I monitor him whenever i am home.  Most times he finds it too 
troublesome to go in and out the cat door and sits at the patio door waiting 
for us to jump up and let him in or out.  The only time the years fall away is 
when he is leading me downstairs to where his food dish is.  Then he almost 
looks like a young cat again.

Still, for all his hair balls, dirty paws, warning scratches and bad smells, I 
will miss him when he is gone.

Time to read for a bit.  Just wanted to chat a bit tonight.

Take care. 
