June 5, 2009

Dear Leonard:

What a lovely surprise to get two letters from you in so short a time!  I know 
I have been a poor correspondent of late, but I have been going through my most 
busy time at the theatre.  In April, I worked 65 hours per week all month and 
the first two weeks of May saw at least 50 hours per week.  When I finally got 
a few days off I was too tired to do much of anything.

We are down to the last month before the theatre closes down for the summer and 
I head south.   I love it when things begin to wind down.   This week my choir 
has their last concert of the season, and my book club will wrap up next week.  
Tonight the high school holds their graduation ceremony in the theatre and the 
next few weeks will see the graduation ceremonies of the college and the 
university, awards night and scholarship nights, etc.  One more large dance 
performance, two more large professional shows and I will be able to turn my 
thoughts to other things.  I will be bringing the script of BBB down for one 
more re-write attempt (just to clean up a few things in act 2 - which I will, 
of course, run past you at the end of summer.

It was very worrying to hear that you had been ill.  Leonard, please take care 
of yourself!  I am very glad that you are digging in your flower bed, as it 
shows me that you are physically stronger, and working the a garden is so good 
for the soul too, don’t you think?  

I put my garden in very late this year, as our spring was so very cold.  
However “Zeena the Zucchini” is thriving and the lettuce, spinach and beets 
are finally showing their tiny heads so all is well on that front here.

I have some good news re: BBB.  Joanne, a school theatre arts teacher with whom 
I have worked for many years, has “short listed” it as one of three plays 
she is considering for next year’s production.   I gave her the script last 
year and she has read it and likes it.  She is a very good director, but is a 
bit concerned that she may not have enough students in her class to fill all 
the roles.  There are a great many boys in the script, you will recall, and she 
does not know how many boys she will have come out and audition.  In some shows 
one can cast girls, but in this show, I think, we must be true to the script 
and keep the genders in their “true” roles.  If we don’t the whole thing 
with Molly will not work.

So we shall see.  

I have been cast as “Sister Amnesia” in the Terrace Little Theatre’s 
production of “Nunsense 2 - the second coming” which will open in November, 
but, if Joanne does decide to direct BBB she will not cast until January, and I 
shall certainly audition for the part of Biddy as well.

This is why it is so important to be sure the second act is tightened up a bit 
and the loose ends come to a satisfactory conclusion.  I will talk with you 
about this when I see you this summer.

I intend to leave for Vancouver on June 28 or so - though my son, who is 
presently traveling, has indicated that he may be home around that time.  If he 
is, I will stay here in Terrace for an extra few days to have some time with 
him.

Anyway, sometime in early July I will be in the Vancouver area. 

Unfortunately, I will not have a great deal of time in the early summer, as my 
mother, who has failed quite a bit this year, physically, wants me with her on 
Mudge Island as soon as possible.  She finds that she needs a walker now - and 
doesn’t feel safe to be by herself on the island.

So my visit to you in July will by fleeting.  
However, in middle to late August, I should be back in the White Rock/Vancouver 
area, and will have a bit more time.  I will visit you with my “re-write” 
and hope that we can have a day together visiting the church with your lovely 
angels.  Perhaps we can visit the angels and have a nice lunch somewhere.  

We shall have to see, as my first priority must, of course, be mom and I will 
have to schedule my time around her needs.

In the meantime, how exciting to hear that you have some “Barkerville” 
music!  Leonard you constantly amaze me with both your output and your 
incredible talent.  I hope you will show me some of your work.

How is the opera getting on?  Are your characters behaving themselves?

I will settle down with the magazine article about Newfoundland this weekend.  
My husband was delighted to see the magazine.   We used to get it, but somehow 
let the subscription lapse, and so it was a double delight to be reaquianted 
with an old friend.

Must run and get ready for all the boys and girls who are graduating today …. 
they are SO excited and so nervous, it will take some doing to get them into 
the proper positions, wearing the gowns with bibs all going the right way and I 
shall take a LOAD of bobby pins to help affix those silly little caps to all 
those big hair styles.

See you in July.

All the best



