Dear friends:

I have a confession .. I still have all my Christmas cards up .. in the music 
room, because I promised myself that I wouldn't take them down until I had 
written my Christmas letter .. which will soon be my "Victoria Day" letter.  
But it is so much more fun to write little bits of this and that and not the 
traditional Christmas fare.

Today, as I walked to and from the gym, and frantically then sporadically did 
housework, I was overcome by a longing; an ache so strong that it felt 
physical. 

I think my life needs it's own sound track.

I know that, on days like yesterday, it would be the flight of the bumble 
bee,  played very badly, on something like a kazoo, but when you really think 
about it, a good sound track would do a lot for a life.

I can't decide how it would work.  Could you just program a sound track and 
have it play loud enough to affect the events of your day?  Could I dial up 
something orchestral and dreamy that came out of the sky, and would this 
automatically make me taller, thinner and younger?  Would I suddenly discover 
that I was dressed in a filmy white dress and skipping through a field of wild 
cosmos, into the arms of a prince? (of course the prince wouldn't be an obvious 
prince ... but a covert one ... someone who was fine and good and smart and 
funny, but who lived with his "princely-ness hidden".)

My goodness, even my sound track fantasies are trite!

If one had a good relationship with one's sound track the act of kicking at a 
piece of snow, losing one's balance on the ice and falling on one's ass (which 
happens to me at least twice a winter) would not be accompanied by a 
"pttttthhhhhh" squashy sound, but by a deep, reverberating cello tremolo, so 
that those around one would fear that some tragedy had befallen one, and not 
that you were a stupid, awkward, woman who couldn't walk down a sidewalk 
without falling.

With a gifted sound track, when I burst into tears I wouldn't look pathetic and 
snotty, but rather an unfortunate but brave woman.  My discovery of my broken 
computer could be construed as a drama, not a farce (which it felt).  I think 
a good sound track would lend dignity to one's life.  Sitting in a coffee 
shop, reading a novel, would feel artsy with the right jazz in the background.

Then I got to thinking about the sound track of other people's lives.

Does Jerry Falwell have "Drop Kick Me Jesus, Through the Goal Post of Life" 
somewhere in his repertoire.  Does Jim Bakker have "Your Cheatin' Heart".

No, of course not, if there are to be background sound tracks, it seems that we 
should be able to chose them for ourselves.  

I suspect mine would have a lot of show tunes .. they make me smile.

So do you.

Thank you.

love you


