Dear Jerome:

I can’t sleep so I shall start this note and see how far I get.  I’ve been 
meaning to talk with you about this for some time now …let’s just see if I 
can put my ideas into words.  (Though, sometimes, when I think about this I 
wonder if I didn’t come across this thought at another time - so forgive me 
if I have inadvertently internalized someone else’s brainchild).

I sometimes think of literature as a city … a large, sprawling, constantly 
changing, unregulated and ever changing city.  The “houses” are constructs 
of the authors, and authors live here but they are much outnumbered by 
tourists.  There are a LOT of tourists.  Some tourists visit often and know 
their way around well.  They have an intimate knowledge of the place, mostly 
the straight, well built, older sections, which are grand and beautiful and get 
a lot of visitors.  They probably spend, or have spent, significant time in the 
castle Shakespeare and at the Bible Cathedral.  (The bible’s authors may not 
have been English speakers, but their workmen were, and everyone comes to the 
Cathedral at times … or at least has heard many stories about it - so they 
feel they have some knowledge of it).  Everyone carries around a few postcards 
from these landmarks, and presents them with a flourish when in company.

These tourists also have visited the mansions, built in the British style, 
which house Dickens, Bronte, Austen, Swift, Fielding, Dafoe, and the like and 
the American enclave of manors built by Twain, Melville, Steinback, Hemmingway, 
Fitzgerald etc.  They also have some knowledge of the grand homes built by 
non-English speakers who hired English workers to take their plans and re-make 
them so they would accessible to English visitors …Dostoyevsky, Colette, 
Cervantes and their friends.  This type of tourist usually started their visits 
to the city with well-written guidebooks, or had conductors or escorts to help 
them through the city during their first visits.

These tourists have seen, but probably never visited, the dilapidated and aging 
grand homes that were once very popular but which have fallen into disrepair, 
partly due to lack of interest from tourists.  Therefore, in the solid British 
section one walks hurriedly past the house of Radcliffe, with it’s hanging 
shutters and broken windows, and looks at the peeling paint of the Clara Reeve 
home and wonders how long those buildings will remain standing.  One knows one 
SHOULD visit but always puts that particular trip off for something more 
interesting and up to date.

Another kind of tourist is one who may have been introduced to the city by the 
great guide books, but has decided, instead, to venture out all on their own.  
These people usually know one or two parts of the city well; and often the 
parts away from the centre.   These people hang out in the suburbs; and there 
are many different kinds of suburbs. 

There is the “Lace” or “chick lit” section … small, pert houses with 
fancy gauze curtains and cunning paint jobs that want you to pay your money at 
the door, and walk through quickly, with no thought and no lingering. After 
all, there isn’t much to look at or think about really.  This area blends 
into the lavender smelling, always pretty Romance district, with its plain 
women sitting patiently while heroes with smoldering glances, cruel mouths and 
sneering ways find themselves somehow irresistibly drawn to the women they had 
scorned only a scene ago.

Close by there is the once almost exclusively male enclave of Science Fiction, 
which was then formal, informed and reliable, but has been inundated of late 
with pesky, twittering, and gauche females.  The older residents of this area 
are annoyed that these new inhabitants no longer have to know about physics and 
rockets and seem to build perfectly fine houses, which stand and shelter well, 
despite the fact that they ignore technology.  This is a divided and uneasy 
neighbourhood; the residents push angrily against each other … the older ones 
demanding that young ones pick up and start their own section and leave the 
technology driven houses to stand by themselves.

Right next door is the Porn district, with no curtains, and red lights.  People 
who want a thrill visit this area. They tend to visit the locality often 
because, though the kick of a certain house may pale quickly, being addressed 
to the non-thinking and more visceral areas of the body, there are always new 
rooms under construction.  Visitors here look for new houses ... for places 
where novelty is introduced.  They don’t have to worry, fresh addresses 
spring up in this vicinity all the time, but most of them are shabby and fall 
away to be quickly replaced.  In all districts, including this one, there are 
delightful surprises … Anais Nin build a few incredibly beautiful houses 
here.  

The Science Fiction and the Porno districts are next to each other because, 
though they have different obsessions, they have no heart, so they have to keep 
building more houses, because, without heart, people will lose interest.

Next is the fantasy neighbourhood which is probably the area with the most 
diverse houses.  Some of these structures are difficult to enter, and once in, 
you can’t find the way out again.  You also don’t know if you can believe 
what you see happening out the windows.  These are the remarkable edifices.  
But many of the houses here are straightforward imitations of the dwellings in 
the folk tale sections and fantasy creatures you see out the windows in this 
sector are merely the dragons and witches from the next door folk tale cottages 
that have been transformed.

There is the pre-fab corner.. the houses of novels based on movies and TV 
(their windows have the blinds drawn - but pretty pictures painted on those 
blinds so you would almost swear you were experiencing “real life”), the 
western quarter - now a much smaller place than it was 50 years ago, the 
sprawling fairy tale district - which was once an important and necessary 
“must see” but which has fallen into disfavor of late.  There is the 
divergent section of crime houses.  Next to the staid, orderly British Crime 
houses, where the curtains of tradition and stability are rent by a vicious 
crime, and mended by a competent detective - who somehow can make the broken 
article as good as new - stand the heaving streets of the American crime 
houses. Here disorder is the norm, and the protagonists do their best to impose 
a tiny bit of order on a lawless and uncaring street.  Many tourists believe 
that the city would do better to have these as two separate districts.

In all areas of the city there are houses that are built and yet bordered up, 
their authors not having the courage or the strength to open the doors to the 
public … these are the manuscripts, long written which molder in a bottom 
drawer somewhere.  There are also many houses in the process of being built, 
though you suspect that many of them have builders who have given up in 
despair.  

Sometimes when builders open a door the crowds rush in and overwhelm them … 
apparently Margaret Mitchell, who was well brought up, spent so much time 
answering fan mail after Gone With the Wind was published, that she never felt 
she had the time to write another novel. (This may be hearsay, but it is quite 
a delightful story, don’t you think?)  Other houses are visited because it is 
“The Thing To Do” and some house or other enjoys fame and fashion for a 
time before people realize that Jacqueline Susann, Arthur Hailey and Grace 
Metalious are not the fantastic builders the critics promised they were.  Their 
houses seemed new and exciting and eclectic, but, over time, we see the things 
we thought fresh are just the same old, presented in a clever way.  In time, 
when the moldings come undone or the roof sags, we are disappointed. 

Some tourists are very picky.  My friend, Jen, for example, knows the Stephen 
King houses intimately and visits them over and over…. though she likes his 
early houses best and is irritated with him every time he tries to introduce a 
new design, or diverge in any way from the plans of his first few houses. She 
also loves to spend whole months visiting the many, many houses of Agatha 
Christie.  I once gave her a pass to a Jane Austen house and she visited 
reluctantly.  Last summer I paid her way in to see one of the Bronte houses … 
she saw about a quarter of it and declared herself not interested and retreated 
to the Christie borough where she has planted herself ever since.  She swears 
to me that she will revisit when she “is ready” but I am not holding my 
breath.

Generally, the tourists to this city have no idea of how hard it is to build a 
house here.  They often think they would do it themselves, if they had the 
time.  They think of the life they have lead and suspect they should build a 
house with it.  But merely recording events does not make bricks and mortar. 
Experience does not become ideas without much thought behind it.  It is easier 
to visit a house and judge rather than invent and build.

In all sections of the city there are good and bad builders.  The good builders 
take a vision of the “real world” and transpose it into the city, making 
durable and beautiful architecture.  No matter how fantastic and different a 
building looks, it has to be based on some kind of reality, or you will brush 
against the door frame and some of the paneling will fall off ...there is no 
glue, or no nails, to hold it together.  

And I have now run out of steam and will go back to bed.  I will re-read this 
tomorrow and then send it.

Off to dream land (I hope)
