Dear Chris:

Thought I would use a few minutes this morning to let you know how book club 
went.  

We STARTED with your comments (hope that was okay).  There were nods of assent, 
and laughter and “yes, yes, yes”, in response to your writing.  Also, Dina, 
who read the book some years ago and never got the chance to re-read it for 
book club really enjoyed your work, because you encapsulated the plot, and that 
gave her some reminders.

We all loved the book for different reasons.

Brenda and I loved the funny bits and how they are used to highlight the 
tragedy which we KNOW is about to happen.  We had both selected many of the 
same sections to illustrate our points.  The village fair and the seduction of 
E by R.  The wedding feast, the carriage ride which ends with Emma’s hand 
throwing out the torn up letter, the hilarious tour of the cathedral when all 
the protagonists want to do is give way to their lust.  We roared with laughter 
over the two men during the death scene who fall asleep only to rouse 
themselves and continue their faith vs. reason debate.

We talked of Flaubert’s concept of passion and how he equated all passion 
equally - lust, religious fervor etc. 

I loved the cinema - like quality of the whole book; the man should have been a 
screen writer.   I also LOVED E because she was SUCH a drama queen - EVERYTHING 
is ALWAYS about her.   She leaves Leon and leans against the convent wall and 
thinks “maybe I should have been a nun” and sees no irony in this stance, 
she has absolutely no sense of humor and she tries on different roles all the 
time, like a complete, unconscious actress.

Brenda talked of Flaubert and his class consciousness.  She had many examples.

Ada, who had read the book in French before and now read the English 
translation, liked the images (stars melting with emotion, the kettle settling 
itself amongst the coals, etc.  )   She also spoke of what the names meant in 
French and Latin (Bovary from bovine - meaning cow etc.)  When we looked we saw 
an amazing number of characters whose names encapsulated what was their main 
feature.

We talked of French society and what we did and didn’t know about it…. 
about the position of doctors in society and the various levels in 
“professional” society.

We talked of the three Madame B’s in the book.  We all LOVED the character of 
Madame B - sr - who is so conniving and almost the “wicked witch” of fairy 
tales.

Rebecca noted that, just as in Snow White, when SW’s mother pricks her 
finger, E pricks her finger and the next moment she is pregnant … which lead 
to allusions from fairy and folk tales that we had found in the book.

I maintained that all of E’s decisions up to the point of taking arsenic made 
perfect sense.  The emotional and flighty girl who is, at heart, the pragmatic 
peasant (note how often F calls her a peasant) and who makes a series of 
decisions which, if she is lucky (she isn’t) will help her rise about her 
station, again and again.  We all talked of the options she had and which ones 
she didn’t take  and why.

We looked for clues as to why E didn’t have any women friends.

We talked of all the images of imprisonment in the novel - the windows which 
could or couldn’t be opened, the shutters, the way the town was circumscribed 
by river and fields - how so often E see things getting smaller and tighter and 
how she has no escape.

We looked at the other women in the novel and how they had coped with their 
lives …. and when it was a lucky combination of circumstance and temperament 
and when it wasn’t.  Indeed F often makes allusions to circumstance and 
temperament and how it is all luck - the way things fall.

We talked and talked and talked.   Some nights we are “finished” the book 
in an hour or two.  At 11, when we broke to go home, we still had lots to talk 
about.

And when I got home, I received the following from Brenda - which is a great 
way to end the discussion on Flaubert ….


Hi, guys,

    I know it is hard to believe, but I forgot to say something.  Hahahaha.

    I read an article in the New Yorker magazine about Damon Runyon, and the 
first paragraph of the article fit the way I feel about Flaubert's writing.  I 
brought it to Ada's tonight but forgot to bring it out, so here it is:
 
"Popular fiction is supposed to be essentially story-driven; the proof that it 
works is the sound of the pages turning.  But a few of the great pop writers 
were stylists, above all, and their success is measured by a different sound, 
that of the snort of appreciation followed by a phrase read out loud to a 
half-sleeping spouse in bed at night.  The pages stop turning while we admire 
the sentences."
Adam Gopnik
 
And I think that's my last comment on Madame Bovary!

I only hope that Gustave Flaubert, wherever he is, heard us laughing at the 
humour in his 19th century French novel, even if we are only bourgeoisie 
anglais.

Love, Brenda
 
PPS.  I hope the cats are warm, dry and happy!
