Remember how I said I just don't understand male culture?

I have to tell you this story.

The Sheriff and deputies (grade 8 and 9 boys - so 13 and 14 years old) in the 
current play at the Lee are slowly being educated in theatre etiquette - so 
they were told not to break curtain during the dress today.  Which means they 
were backstage the whole time.

And they were loud .. and we had to send messages back to them, and the 
messages sent via stage hands from the director were ignored.  

Now, you never want to alienate your actors just before a performance, so Jo 
Anne (the director) didn't want to go and yell at them. But she wanted someone 
to be firm and , as someone outside the company, I can take on that job.

So I went backstage and confiscated the guns - and put them back on the props 
tables where they belonged, and then had to go back a bit later and take away 
their hats (which were being used to hit other actors) and then went back and 
took away their bandannas (which were used tie up other actors).  And I talked 
with them gently (it IS irritating to have to do so much waiting) and suggested 
they go into the back change room where they could at least talk - without 
anyone getting mad at them.

AND, I had to go back later, when the talking became yelling.

So I walk into the dressing room to discover that, to pass the time, the young 
men were having a farting contest.  

I tell you, you could lock up a bunch of teenage girls for years and they would 
NEVER think of having a farting contest.  It was so ludicrous (and smelly) 
that I collapsed in laughter.  Well, I've never been one to play the heavy.  
I usually cajole. 

(having said this .. some of my teenage techs told me that they once had a 
discussion about who they would rather piss off .. me or God.
"what did you decide?" I asked
"we decided we would rather piss off you", she said, "but by a very slim 
margin." )
 
It HAS to be a gender thing! 

I'm just getting rid of the last of the actors, who are being sent home, and we 
will all be back for 5:00 p.m.
 
it will be almost 3:30 by the time I get home - so I shall go.
 
Hopefully tomorrow will NOT be as hectic and I'll be able to write a bit more.

k


