Dear Griff:

Thanks for the photo of the children.  I quite agree with you ... cute they may 
be AT THAT MOMENT, but one dose of cute goes a long way for me .... it would 
probably be about 3 or 4 years, before I needed another one.  Your wife must 
have an iron constitution if she can work with those little critters every day. 
 I would slit my wrists or be found, swinging gently in the breeze, above my 
teacher desk, not being able to take all that cuteness for one more minute.

I will wager Talthan fish scale soup against sancocho any day ... but I suspect 
they are both disgusting in their own, culturally interesting, way.

I keep away from bhajis of any kind, just because of the fat content.  Though 
they are wonderful, I agree.   Sometimes I just NEED a fix of salt and grease.

The leather corset and entire costume was a big hit at the masquerade.  I got 
many compliments.  I also got approached by two lesbian women - unfortunately 
drunk lesbians - one in particular.  I have always had difficulty extricating 
myself from such situations, (men or women) because I never want to give 
offense.   With lesbians one can't even go and hide in the washroom, so things 
were a bit dicey for a bit.  I finally settled on the strategy of blithely 
misunderstanding of everything ....

"you look so HOT"
k:  "oh really?  probably just cause I'm dancing so much .... it's warm in here"

"would you like to dance with me?"
k: "of course, and let's bring in my friends Karen and David to dance with us 
too".

"why don't we go somewhere else for a drink?  I'd love to look at that corset"
k "oh, gee, you know I'm the designated driver and I have to ensure that all my 
friends get home  - so I have to stay sober AND be here for all of them.  But I 
can give you the address of the woman who makes the corsets"

"your dancing really turns me on"
k: "I think it's just the corset.   I usually just flail, but you can't flail 
too much in this thing - so I guess I'm moving differently than normal".

"you were just designed to fit into my arms and be squeezed"
k: "well, you know, I'm actually feeling constricted enough as it is .... but 
thanks anyway".

My "date", David, and my friend Karen, both single, got on really well and were 
soon a couple on the dance floor - which is no big deal, but it meant that I 
couldn't collar David and make  him waltz me around the room for a few dances 
to get rid of the one woman who had that tenacity which you get when you've had 
a certain number of drinks.

I think your analysis of Morris Dancing is absolutely spectacular and will 
shamelessly steal it, and put it forward as my own theory when talking of the 
building of the British Empire.  But I have a secret to share with you ... I 
think I would like, just once, to dress up with socks and bells and jump around 
waving that hanky and ferociously whacking other people with sticks.  Probably 
a lot of women would... but it's apparently one of those male enclaves .... 
which might be just as well, arm women with sticks and give them leave to hit 
silly men and you never know where it will end.

>    Jennie is one of these ladies, who, at her worst (doing a grotty job, hair 
tied back, covered in paint) always looks kind of cute, but when she makes an 
effort she's very easy on the eye indeed. I suspect, if I may be so bold, that 
you also fall into this category.
awwwwhhhhh shucks, thank you, kind sir ....
>  
>        Best of luck with the boat stuff. I've never had much luck with boats 
although I suppose that if I had the money I'd be tempted to get a boat. We 
watch them sailing by from our terraza and I often think that living on a boat 
could be fun, just pull up the anchor when you get bored and go someplace else.
I'm still slogging through.  I love boating, but I would never live on one .... 
where would one put the garden?  When you are upset with your partner it's a 
bit difficult to take off for a long walk ..... and if you go for a long swim, 
and THEY are upset with you, you couldn't guarantee that the boat would still 
be there when you got back.  Also, you have to be tidy - which is a skill I've 
never come close to mastering.
>  
>    Not sure about the embroidered shirt. I've a Spanish Foreign Legion shirt 
somewhere with embroidered epaulettes, but it's probably not what you had in 
mind. About the trousers, well at my age all my trousers are tight. As for 
hats, I used to have a vast collection but now all I have stashed away are a 
selection of caps fro the Civil War, none of which are very exciting.
No, no, no ... I want to see you in the same hat that Jennie has on in the 
picture ... THAT would be sweet (as opposed to cute) and just think, you'd 
bring laughter into a woman's heart .....

I made 2 rhubarb pies this morning and they are cooling.  So I must go to the 
gym if I am to allow myself a piece later on today.

Hope to hear from you soon.

k



