Dear Bill:

I hear you are looking for stories better in the telling than in real life ... 
here's mine


It was our first winter in the village of Masset on the Queen Charlotte 
Islands.  My husband Graham and I were missing our family and friends, and were 
in a mild depression because of  the constant rain which is common on the 
islands, the lack of decent vegetables and, in my case, the lack of employment. 
 True, there were some compensations .... our little rented house, although 
drafty and cold, overlooked the bird sanctuary, and every morning we watched 
incredible red sunrises over the water.  There were also five Trumpeter  Swans 
who were overwintering in the marsh in the sanctuary.  Four of them were 
obviously the in crowd and we named these Bob, Carol, Ted and Alice.  The loner 
we called Elvis and on evenings it wasn't pelting with rain I would walk down 
to the water and sing "Are you lonesome tonight?"  to him.  He and I were both 
feeling blue.

Advent season came and Graham and I did our best to be festive.  We tried a 
weiner roast on North Beach, but the constant wind blew out our fires, even the 
ones we started with gasoline, we walked the beach looking for interesting 
wildlife and came upon a decomposing sea lion, even our gortex jackets seemed 
to leak.

Then, about a week before Christmas a miracle happened.  It snowed, a very 
uncommon thing on the Charlottes.  Even more uncommon, it stayed clear and 
cold, and no rain came to wash the snow away.  Have you had the experience of 
being the first to walk a beach covered with snow?  The wash of the waves into 
the white of the snow is surreal.  And there are no footstep but your own.

On Christmas Eve day we spent the morning decorating the local church with 
greens, paper angels and candles.  In the early evening a few friends gathered 
and we plowed through Christmas Carols with harpsichord, banjo and violin.  
Close to midnight we all headed to church.

At church I played the organ which had a sour F sharp key, so I was transposing 
as I played (something I'm certainly not good at).  The congregation had to be 
long on forgiveness.     I remember thinking "the music is bad, the singing is 
weedy, and we are completely without family to share Christmas with."

After church Graham and I walked home.  The snow was now just crunchy bits of 
white to walk upon.  We walked along the sanctuary, towards our house in 
silence, watching an almost full moon over the trees.   Suddenly Graham stepped 
on a piece of ice which was thinner than the rest and broke through the surface 
of a puddle.  The crack of the ice sounded crisp and violent in the night and 
the five swans rose from the marsh and seemed to fly across the moon before 
settling a little further on.  

I remember thinking that Christmas might be joyous after all.
