Dear Brenda:

Take heart !  In a week all this will be over.  Remember, your main job over 
the wedding prep and day is to float around serenely and assure everyone things 
will be great.  If Anne has a nervous tantrum because she doesn't like the way 
her hair is done, you serenely assure her that she looks like a princess, when 
the caterers confide that they forgot the salmon and are serving mac and cheese 
instead, you say "It will be great" to everyone with a massive smile on your 
face, when you are sent on a trip to find 17 matching pink sugar buttons for 
party favours you say, "of course, dear" and gently waft off with copious 
amounts of money, when your sister confides in you that she never really liked 
the way you parented/looked/acted/danced/treated your boyfriend in grade 
10/cooked/dealt with your mother/etc/etc/etc you smile and say "this is Anne's 
day, so I know you mean that as kindly as possible" and float away to be 
gracious to someone else.  I think the best mothers of the bride are the ones 
who assure others that running shoes are completely appropriate with a wedding 
gown, when the proper shoes have a heel come off 20 minutes before the "big 
walk".  That rather than scrambling to find an alternate pair of shoes.

Weddings are rife with "Things That Can Go Wrong" and so little things take on 
huge significance.   In the end, what matters is that Anne has a memorable and 
fun day, and she is too mature to be REALLY worried about matching colours or 
missing napkins.  You job is to keep things in perspective for her (and 
everyone else), and, with your ability to laugh at the world and to charm 
everyone around you, it will all be fine.

You know I admire you tremendously already, but I am absolutely blown away that 
you journal so completely!  Wow!  It must be like looking back to another 
world, seeing yourself in an earlier time.  And, because I am a firm believer 
that life is really about those little moments or incidents: funny, sad, 
interesting, or even commonplace .... I am humbled that you take the time and 
energy to record all those times that seem so insignificant at the time but 
which are really the things which makes every life spectacular in it's own way 
...

About your sister ... if she is anything like mine, she is ALWAYS competing and 
ALWAYS needs to win.  With MBW, all she needs is the assurance that she is IN 
COMPLETE CONTROL of her rehearsal.  She just needs confirmation of what she 
wants as the status quo (and quite rightly, she IS the director).  With my 
sister, she always thinks we are in competition, so she always needs to win.  
No matter how much I play low status, she'll accept a "win" this time, but will 
be worried that next time she'll loose, so no matter how much I play low 
status, she sees us as always engaged in a new struggle.  It really is 
fatiguing.   After talking with her last night, and saying how much I 
appreciated all she had set up for mom, I said "I know it's really hard, cause 
I did it this summer, and it takes all your time and energy" and she replied 
"Well I do it all year, and I cope .... you only did it for 2 months".  So, 
there I was, trying to give her a compliment, and she just interpreted it as a 
contest.  sigh.

Anyway, have a great time and enjoy yourself.  All good thoughts with you on 
the BIG DAY, and the days before and after.

love you.

k



