
The night before the multi-cultural dinner the committee was setting up and I 
dropped by to do a sound check with them.  I arrived on time to find that 
nothing microphone related was set up, so I got in touch with the poor guy who 
is the "on call" guy at the venue (and isn't technical by any means) and he got 
me two microphones and some cables, and showed me where the jacks were.
The mics didn't work in one of the jacks, so I went through the trouble 
shooting procedure you would do ...   
Simplify: is it a jack problem, a cable problem, a mic problem?

It was pretty obvious that it was a jack problem (as both mics and cables 
worked in different jacks).  Just to be sure, I even re-patched the amplifier, 
and sure enough, the none working jack STILL didn't work, with working patches 
from the other jacks in it.  So I repatched everything to it's original 
position, dusted the amplifier that was amazingly dirty, ran a long cable from 
a working jack to where the podium would be, set up the mic stand, placed the 
microphone, and was ready to leave when this guy who was running the music 
arrived - about 45 minutes late.
He looks at the set up, and says "no, no, no, the microphone should come from 
THAT jack.  That's what we used last year".
So I tell him that the jack doesn't work, I have tested it.  He gives me a 
patronizing smile and says, "you just have to know how to hook it up", and 
unpatches everything I have done and runs a cable to the non-working jack.  No 
sound.  He tried a different microphone, still no sound.  He comes over to me 
and says "these mics aren't working".
I tell him (with a very sweet smile) that they work just fine with the other 
jacks.  He tells me this is impossible.  He then tests them in the working 
jacks, and, of course, they do work.  I smile sweetly.
He then RE-patches the mic into the non-working jack, telling me that, now he 
has the microphones working, they will work in this jack.  (This tells me that 
he has no theory - as if you don't get signal from an amp, you don't get sound 
- so he doesn't understand the fundamentals) Of course they don't.
He goes and gets the little on call guy who says "I don't know anything about 
microphones."

I sweetly say, "I had the mics working before you came, maybe we should hook 
them up that way again."

He looks at me and says, "listen, sweetheart, let the men deal with this, 
okay?" (hence the penis reference)

I would like to stomp out, but I know I will be coming back at the last minute 
before the dinner the next day to MC and if things aren't working, I'm the one 
who is going to suffer.  Also I don't want to have to be patching and testing 
on a short time line, so I smile tightly, and say "fine".

They two of them play with the mics - even trying pushing buttons on the cd 
player and cd amp - which has absolutely NOTHING to do with the micing system - 
for about 30 minutes.  I sit on my hands and try not to fume too much, and then 
mr. macho says "well, maybe we'll have to rent a system and bring it in."

I say, "let's just try it my way, once.  I really think it might work.".  But 
of course, they have completely unpatched everything in the mic amplifiers and 
not labeled anything so it's a crap shoot.  Luckily mr. Macho is so busy trying 
to explain to the organizers why the system isn't working that I can grab the 
little on call guy and use him to plug one end of things in while I patch the 
amp.  It works on our third configuration try.  Great surprise and delight from 
organizers.  Mr. Macho does not look at me or talk to me but says to the little 
on call guy, "great, you got it working'.  and stomps out.

I predict we will not be pals in the future either.
He was a pain to work with the next day too, as people kept asking me, during 
the dinner, to turn the music down and when I would ask him to he would say 
"there is only one way to do sound and I do it right".

Ah, men, ya gotta love them.  Or have castration fantasies about specific ones.
