So you sleep under a sheet?  ONLY a sheet?  At the moment I'm feeling great 
that we're down to two down filled duvets.  The sleeping bag for really cold 
nights has been put away and the extra quilt is folded on a chair and hasn't 
been  used for a week or two.  Still, I'm not putting it away until there is no 
more snow in the back yard.

    I sympathize with you re: the neighbours.  We used to have a horrid 
neighbour who not only was a fence - and so was receiving stolen good at all 
hours of the night and day - but also played country and western music - the 
old kind with dogs running away and broken hearts - REALLY loud (ly?).  G. 
being a technical genius - could always find speakers at thrift stores that he 
would beef up and place outside and we would counter by playing Wagner as 
loudly as we could.  We're not very fond of Wagner as a musician, but excerpts 
from "the Flying Dutchman" are formidable weapons.  When Abe (the neighbour) 
got sick and was in the hospital it was interesting to see his various sons 
break into his house to remove all sorts of things.  I was actually very happy 
that I hadn't known about the number and variety of guns and rifles he had in 
the house, or I wouldn't have dared play Wagner that loud.  After he died and 
his house went on sale, we went through the neighbour with the 9 small, yappy 
dogs, the neighbour with the disabled son who screamed all the time, the 
neighbour with the big dog who could burrow under the fence in about 10 seconds 
on any given day and then would shit in our yard and chase our cat.  Luckily, 
we now have a lovely family next door.  Two small girls, but they don't like to 
be outside very much, and they keep quiet if you ply them with Popsicles on hot 
days, and a dog with a collar that gives him a small electric shock every time 
he barks.  She does have a tendency to come over and borrow large numbers of 
eggs and amounts of sugar, or flour, but it's a small price to pay compared to 
former neighbours.  Also, when some of our friends with small children come 
over to visit, we have a built in yard next door with playmates - and we can 
usually convince the child to go next door and play - so we can have adult 
conversation in our yard. (you would call it a garden).

    Having been on several boards I know the frustration of money 
conversations.  I remember once being bogged down over a request for $20.00 
from a hard working volunteer who had lost her receipts.  As far as I'm 
concerned, anyone who volunteers that many hours deserves all the breaks we can 
give her.  The board argued about it for about 2 hours, while swilling beer 
(free to them).  I'm sure they drank over $20.00 of beer in the discussion.  I 
usually state my position and then stay quiet until I can't stand it anymore, 
then throw a well produced and emotional hissy fit - which makes everyone say 
"oh, yes, yes, you're right, we're being too picky - let's just give her the 
$20.00 and ask her to be more careful next time."  The problem is timing the 
fit.  If you do it too often or too quickly you just look temperamental.  If 
you do it too late - everyone is too emotionally exhausted to react.
    Whoops - I'm late.  I have to run to the gym for a quick workout then head 
to the theatre.  The Sweet Adelines (a barbershop singing group comprised of 
lots of middle aged and old women) is arriving today to have a discussion about 
their hats and their costumes (both of which are gruesome).  I promised them an 
hour or two of looking at their outfits under lights and helping them to choose 
gel colours should they be in the SA finals.
    Lighting designers can do wonderful things, so I'm trying to make their 
sequined turquoise outfits look slightly less garish with gel colours.  I've 
also suggested they get some dry ice for one of their songs and side light -- 
that way they'll be lost in a fog which I think would look really cool - they 
were a bit luke warm about the idea - but we'll see.

    Good luck with the accounts.

    k



    Griff Henderson wrote:

        Dear Karla,
             I had a friend who was keen on cross country skiing, in fact he 
spent a week in Norway doing it just before he died (surprisingly it wasn't the 
skiing that killed him). I used to like skiing but my wife wouldn't try it, so 
I didn't make a big thing about it. One advantage the ski slopes have over 
cross country is that you are never far from a bar.
            Still hot, the thick sheet we have on the bed has been put away 
until December, and the consumption of ice and cold drinks has increased 
dramatically.
            I really should be out on the terraza the rest of the day but our 
dippy neighbour has her daughter's white trash in-laws there, so it's case of 
playing loud music indoors until the swine go back to their "chabolas" (slum 
dwellings). In any case El Presidente has dumped the Community accounts on me 
so that I can produce the annual accounts sheet to submit to the owners. I hate 
that sort of thing but Jan is even worse at it than I am, and we need to be 
seen to be only spending money on essential things. Anything doubtful on the 
accounts sheet and the annual meeting drags on forever while the Norwegian 
Mafia fusses over a few centimos.
            So, if my afternoon is to involve dreary accounts I shall need a 
large brandy to help my creativity.
                                                                           Love,
                                                                            
Griff



