There are some days you REALLY don’t want to live through twice.  
Yesterday was one of them.

The whole week has been fraught with challenges.  We’ve been getting ready 
for the pantomime “Treasure Island” all week and it’s been stressful.  
Set pieces arriving late - with no place to store them, not enough time to set 
cue levels, raging diva actors, unmoving directors, tantrum throwing musicians 
etc. etc.  

However, dress night was pretty good - though the set changes took too long.   
That was remedied by the crew arriving on the night before the show - marked 
“off” on our calendars - and running set changes for three hours until the 
whole thing was as fast as we could get it.

More importantly (for me) is on dress night, as I was turning out the lights 
and locking up, I walked past the desk of the person on deck (wings left) and 
noticed a little container with gummy worms in it.  Now it is quite common for 
those working deck to always have certain things with them … aspirin, throat 
lozenges, hard candies, sewing kit, etc. etc.  Anything you think an actor 
might need. We also often keep things with sugar, particularly when there are 
children in the cast, (there were 25+ children in this cast)  because a hit of 
sugar keeps energy up.

“now WHO would have a container of gummy worms and not eat the last two?” I 
asked myself?  And, not having had dinner (and probably not having lunch either 
that day) I popped the two in my mouth.

Opening night, as we are doing our prop checks the person on wings left says 
“Oh MY.  Our gummy worms are gone!!!”   There WAS a fishing scene in the 
show, and I had eaten the two gummy worm props!  Do you KNOW how many times I 
have given the lecture “NEVER touch the prop table”?  Do you know how 
strict I am about backstage conduct?  Can you imagine where those worms had 
been?  - through people’s hands, on a wire “hook” dipped to the floor of 
the theatre, etc.  I don’t actually want to think about the bacteria I’ve 
ingested with those two worms.

So guess who had to go out and buy a CONTAINER of gummy worms?  I think it will 
be some years before I live THAT one down.

However, opening night went well.  Well enough that the adult cast adjourned to 
a local bar WAY too late that evening.  I declined the invitation knowing I was 
sick.

Yesterday we had a matinee and an evening show.  I was a bit concerned about 
how we were going to keep the children’s energy up and arrived at the theatre 
a bit pre-occupied with food concerns - should we have high protein snacks 
backstage, order pizza between shows, etc. etc.

I arrived at the theatre to witness a verbal fight between two actors on WHOSE 
responsibility it had been to book the truck for load out.  Anger between 
actors isn’t a good thing before a show, so I volunteered to take this on 
(though it’s not my job), opened the theatre for the actors, snagged the 
sound guy and the two of us headed out to pick up a 5 ton truck.  It took a bit 
of talking to find a place which would loan us a truck for the night on such 
short notice.  But we found one, and Patrick drove it back to the theatre.  I 
returned to the theatre, and walked in on Amy, the woman playing Captain 
Smollet, doubled over with pain.  A brief consult with the Stage Manager, and 
Amy was taken to the hospital where they diagnosed appendix problems.  Right, 
we didn’t have a Captain Smollet for the last two shows.

In cases like this the director usually steps in, which is what Chris did.  
However Amy, though not small, is MUCH smaller than Chris.  So we were slitting 
pants and hand sewing gussets in so he could wear the costume.  At the same 
time, I had cast members who knew the show well, cutting and pasting and 
highlighting a script for Chris to take on stage with him, and others foraging 
for a navel looking clip board or something official looking he could carry.  
We tried to hook up a blue tooth transmitter, but Chris is partly deaf and we 
couldn’t count on him hearing well enough.

We opened the first show 10 minutes late, but we were underway.  I was working 
deck on stage right, so I couldn’t see the stage.  The first scene with the 
new Smollet was pretty rocky.  He’s on with kids and they were having 
problems with the change.  Once they were off I gave them a little pep talk 
about sending their energy to support him and REALLY selling this to the 
audience and they started the second scene really well.  

I was just relaxing and checking my notes for the next scene change when I 
heard a collective gasp through the headset.  Chris had been looking at his 
script and walked off the stage, into the orchestra pit.  To give him credit he 
climbed out of the pit and carried on, but you can imagine the consternation, 
on stage, in the audience, backstage.  

I sent a runner to get ice packs, just in case, and kept trying to raise the 
conductor (who had decided to take his head set off) to see if anything was 
needed in the pit.  Chris is not a small man, if he had fallen on one of the 
musicians there could be injuries to the fallee as well as the faller).  Just 
in case, I sent an ice pack to the pit, and two to the dressing rooms for 
Chris, should he need it.  I also sent a runner with a note to Chris’ wife, 
in the audience, to say that he was all right, as soon as I got word, because I 
knew that she would be worried.

In theatre the Stage Manager is in control.  It is her/his call about when to 
stop a show and when to carry on.  I wasn’t SM on this show and so I 
couldn’t make the call (I think I would have stopped the show between scenes 
to check everyone out, asking the conductor to have the orchestra play for a 
few minutes).  Barb was adamant we carry on, so I had to comply.  But I wasn't 
happy with the call (which, it turns out, was the right one).

During the set change I spent my time calming the children, so forgot to set my 
three pieces for the next change.  Two weren’t important but one was the 
treasure map - which is integral to the plot.  THAT meant I had to send out a 
child in costume to wander onto the stage and to the bar, and place the map, 
when the focus was out front, so that the scene could continue without error.  
She did a magnificent job.  I just told her to go to the bar and quietly order 
a drink, when the chase scene was going on downstage, then place the map, and 
sit at a pub table as if she had been blocked there.

And things continued on.  

Without belaboring things even farther, over the next few hours and over that 
and the last show, we had two children throw up backstage (too much excitement, 
food, sugar? not sure), one girl go home with a migraine severe enough to make 
HER throw up (frantic re-staging of two of the dances), a sprained ankle 
between the two shows (tensor bandage and quick manufacture of a “crutch” 
for the child who needed to be on with lines - assigning one child to be their 
“assistant” and keep them from falling over), a prima donna child who 
wanted to be in on the drama (I’m not sure if I feel well enough to go on - 
K’s response “it doesn’t matter how you feel, you’re going on …. 
because I KNOW you’re a performer and you’ll do this for the ensemble” - 
all the while wanting to smack her), a nose bleed that would stop then start 
again at the most inappropriate times (as I’m stuffing cotton up the nose of 
a 10 year old and I’m saying “you’re a trooper, you can make this happen. 
 As soon as you finish this dance you get back to the dressing room and put an 
ice pack on your nose, but right now, you are a SCARY CAVE Creature and if your 
nose bleeds down your face the audience will just think it’s stage blood so 
let it bleed”), a pie in the face that was thrown slightly  off cue - which 
meant shaving cream in the actor’s eyes - (thank the fates I had just this 
month - re-stocked my supply of saline solution in the first aid kit) and all 
over the main curtain (I’ll be groveling to the custodian on Monday).

By the time we had finished the two shows, done the strike and loaded out, I 
felt like a wet noodle.

So I just attended the after party for a little while; enough time to 
congratulate everyone.  I headed home when the karaoke machine came out.  I had 
enough of drama that day, and bad singing wasn’t going to help at all.

There is a children’s after party today which I was not going to attend, but 
I think, considering how well most of them did over the day, and how they just 
soldiered on no matter what was thrown at them,  I will put in an appearance.  
I think I will go downtown and buy some little lemon tarts and some whipping 
cream in a can - then do the “pie in the face” thing with any of the kids 
who wants to have the experience. 

Part of the charm of my job is dealing with the unexpected, but there was just 
TOO much unexpected happening yesterday.

Anyway, if I’m going to make it to the party I should go.

take care.

k
