Dear Michael:

Happy Halloween!!!

So I was writing to my friend, Michael, who is a professor of immunology at 
Memorial University - Newfoundland. He’s attending a “Halloween work 
party” as Captain Kirk. And then I got to thinking … what DO immunologists 
get up to when they party? Do they wash their hands a lot, just in case?

I’ve noticed a great deal of difference in parties given by different groups 
of people.

Parties made up primarily of musicians have, of course, lots of music. If there 
are lots of guitar players and percussionists and vocalists, there is a lot of 
switching around of instruments, and some people dancing, and others trading 
off from each other, and another little set that goes off by themselves to show 
each other how THEY play.

Parties with brass players always seem to end up with people dancing without 
their pants on. And, I’ve noticed that having a shapely masculine leg is NOT 
a requirement for a brass player. The number of spindly, hairy or beefy 
masculine legs I’ve seen on the dance floor …

String players fall into two groups: the “I will come for a few dances, have 
two glasses of wine then retire to my home to practice” people, and the 
“come into my arms, a woman is like an instrument to me” types. And I have 
to say, string bass players or cellists tend to be good dancers. They have 
great rhythm and, after lugging around that huge instrument all the time, they 
are pretty adept at whipping you around the dance floor effortlessly.

Theatre people dance and dance and dance. They tend to dance in a group, not in 
couples, and it’s pretty pelvically oriented. My sexist dancing is always in 
a group of theatre people … somehow we all give each other permission. 
Theatre parties also rarely stay in the same place. At a certain point everyone 
picks up and goes to the home(s) with the hot tubs, and there is a great deal 
of splashing around and some people in bathing suits and others nude. There is 
always something fizzy to drink that someone has liberated from the last place. 
Also, because theatre groups have a variety of ages (usually 15 or 16 years old 
to 70+) there are always new romantic alliances which are being made and 
broken. At that point most people go home, but a group (and I confess, even 
though I KNOW I should go home, I seldom do) heads to someone else’s place - 
for drinking and talking and scrambled eggs. There is nothing like a hit of 
protein at 3:00 a.m. to help you continue to talk and laugh for an hour or so 
before you decide that you SHOULD go home. In our earlier years, it wasn’t 
unusual for me to come home and make coffee for Graham, (who gets up at about 
5:30 or 6:00) - have coffee with him and then head for bed. Now I can rarely 
make it past 3:30 before I HAVE to get to bed. But, as I no longer drink at 
all, I often end up taking LOTS of people home first- as I want them to be safe.

At telephone worker parties no men dance. They sit at tables, drink and 
complain about the company and talk shop. The partners of the workers have 
little in common - so we make feeble attempts at conversation, then crank up 
the music and dance a bit. Sometimes, if I’m in a party mood, I can get all 
the gals up and dancing, but usually it’s only a few - 5 or 6 women, and the 
energy doesn’t sustain itself.

At women’s groups (Women’s centre, family place, the ladies dessert and 
terrorist club etc.) parties EVERYONE dances. There are usually 7 women to 
every man and it’s one big hug fest. There is always LOTS of really good food 
- and you eat all night long - and there’s a feeling of sex in the air. Lots 
of men and women trolling for women. There are groups of people outside smoking 
up, always. At some point some wicca thing will occur … if it’s a full moon 
someone decides that we should all go out and drum the moon, or if it’s 
raining someone collects rain water and does something vaguely occult with it. 
Often a first nation’s woman will have brought sweet grass and will burn it 
and wave it over you. I’m never clear about what all these things are about, 
but I just let it happen. After the “wicca thing” happens it never seems 
right to just go back dancing, so little groups form with people sitting 
around, eating what’s left of the food and exchanging deep and meaningful 
stories. That’s when I go home, unless I’ve promised to clean up. If I 
have, I start dumping things into garbage bags and avoiding groups. I worked at 
a women’s centre for 12 years, I used to do that kind of listening for a 
living and it’s still draining for me.

My goodness, how I go on!!!

I suppose I should start the day. I’m not feeling all that well today - I had 
the shakes and a fever last night when I was at work during a Treasure Island 
rehearsal. I seem to be marginally better this morning, but just in case, will 
give myself an easy day.

I think I shall make some rouladin for G. for supper tonight, and put on a pot 
of borscht as well (may as well take advantage of all those beets from the 
farmer’s market). And I have to finish my pirate costume, I’m not happy 
with it. Tomorrow’s the “soul professors” Halloween dance - with a 
mixture of music and theatre people attending. That’s what the pirate costume 
is for.

I’ll spend tonight “haunting” a room at a haunted house from 5:30 to 
11:00 - so I’m going to be nice to myself today.

cheers

k




