Dear Pat:

Two weeks ago, I received a small gift from God.  It took the form of a pulled 
muscle in my upper back that made it difficult for me to do many things.  I 
went to work – may as well be miserable and be paid for it as miserable at 
home and typing was one thing that didn’t hurt – but once home there was 
little I could do.  There are only so many videos one can watch at a time – 
and even reading was limited.  At that time, I was reading the “Blind 
Assassin” and it is a hefty tomb – and not easily held up with one hand for 
long.  I didn’t sleep well, and spent long hours lying in the dark.

So I had time to do some thinking.  A lot of thinking.  I spent some time 
thinking about my very wonderful friends and how different they are from each 
other and how unique they are in the world.  This letter is a result of my 
thinking – because it suddenly occurred to me that I seldom tell them how 
magnificent, amazing, and accomplished they are.

So, I am resolved that, as I get time, I will write to each of my friends to 
tell them.  I’m starting with you.

When I think of you in the abstract, I think of a certain painting that was 
done by a music teacher I once had.  It is flowers in a vase – but the vase 
is my favourite part – the part that is you.  It is a swirling blend of light 
and energy and chaos and creativity and possibility, all wrapped up in a 
distinct form.

One of the things I love most about you is the way you combine a vibrant, 
creative force with a disciplined and structured mind.  You know how I used to 
laugh when you brought in Greek or Latin roots of words to illustrate points in 
yours sermons?  I think they were laughs of delight – because you preach with 
such conviction with apparent improvisation – and yet there is always 
structure and meaning behind it.

Your sermons are only a highlight of what you do naturally.  You take in all 
the facts, you combine them in highly original ways and you see the potential, 
you have wonderful ideas, but you are structured enough to know that ideas take 
work and commitment and time.  You are the archetype of the 1960’s woman – 
head in the clouds, feet on the ground.  

You have an amazing sense of beauty.  You don’t rhapsodize often, but you 
create beauty around you naturally, and without thinking about it.  You also 
are highly appreciative of many different kinds of beauty – of different 
landscapes, of the different ways people decorate their houses, and you can 
find small bits of splendor even in squalor.

You are a wonderful friend and confidant – you listen with empathy, and still 
bring a sharp mind and a clear focus to problems.  Your fine mind can cut 
through the haze of detail and find the fundamentals.

You have a fine sense of the ridiculous and you love to laugh.  Your humor 
isn’t mean, although it can be at someone’s expense. 

You have a natural personal caution about you – which you fight against 
constantly.  For example, at times you are strangled with fear when singing 
solo, but you make yourself do it and you do it well.  

When you are assailed by self-doubt – as all of us are at times – you face 
those doubts bravely.  You try to push your own limits all the time – and try 
to push through your doubts – you constantly fight against the demon on your 
shoulder.

You always move as if you were dancing, with a quickness and lightness that 
makes one think of fairies in a field at midnight.  You have rapid-fire 
dialogue, which you strive to slow down in public – but I prefer your quick 
response.  When you are talking, you use your arms as a conductor uses her/his 
baton – to illustrate, to punctuate, to guide, to set pace.  Your hands are a 
clue to your emotional response.  Sometimes when you can’t get a point 
across, or you are frustrated with a situation, they become claws (always a 
sign of power, I say) other times they move as calm waves or they become 
barriers, or hold your thoughts until you can verbalize them.

You are truly unique and awesome.  I am very glad you are my friend.   Karla.
Dear Dina:

Two weeks ago, I received a small gift from God.  It took the form of a pulled 
muscle in my upper back that made it difficult for me to do many things.  I 
went to work – may as well be miserable and be paid for it as miserable at 
home and typing was one thing that didn’t hurt – but once home there was 
little I could do.  There are only so many videos one can watch at a time – 
and even reading was limited.  At that time, I was reading the “Blind 
Assassin” and it is a hefty tomb – and not easily held up with one hand for 
long.  I didn’t sleep well, and spent long hours lying in the dark.

So I had time to do some thinking.  A lot of thinking.  I spent some time 
thinking about my very wonderful friends and how different they are from each 
other and how unique they are in the world.  This letter is a result of my 
thinking – because it suddenly occurred to me that I seldom tell them how 
magnificent, amazing, and accomplished they are.

So, I am resolved that, as I get time, I will write to each of my friends to 
tell them.  You are the person I feel like writing to you tonight.

Today we had a wonderful lunch – I don’t think I have a friend who is as 
remarkable and analytical as you, or who is so able to take an interest in so 
many things.  You have both depth and width.  I see Pat as a blaze of colour 
– I think of you as a Sonata – ethereal, and complex but with an incredible 
logical form.  We don’t know the form until we analyze it, but on one level 
– if it’s a Sonata – we are always aware that it fits together.

In case you don’t know – a Sonata is a musical form which comes in a series 
of movements.  A theme is introduced and then played with, and changed and 
sometimes turned upside-down, and then a new movement comes on and it has a new 
theme and a new tempo and a new feeling, but somehow it always has echoes of 
the first movement, and then the next movement happens and it is different and 
the same again, and then the next and then it ends and you don’t know why but 
all those amazingly different movements fit together into a great whole.  The 
whole being so much more than the sum of its parts.  There are so many DIVERSE 
things about you that I love – that don’t seem to have much to do with each 
other, and yet, like a sonata, they all need to be there, and somehow they are 
all interconnected.

I love the interest and vitality you bring to life.  The way you both gobble it 
down and enjoy it, and hold it away from you and look at it.  I love your sense 
of humor.  You are the only person I have ever met who has a pure and true 
sense of and appreciation for the ridiculous.  You enjoy it so much while 
pointing it out.  I love your deep ethical sense, and you ability to put 
yourself in other’s places.  You say it is a desire to please, I think it is 
the ability to see and hold many points of view at the same time.

You are unpretentious and comfortable with your own limitations while being so 
understanding about the limitations of others.  When you rail, you do it 
eloquently and beautifully.  You have such a fine appreciation for language, 
for meaning, for personality, and for ambiguity.  You have passion but can tame 
it.  I always marvel that you can do things such as go to a 50th wedding 
anniversary AND a family reunion and not feel overtaken.

You have a fascinating drive and although you at first appear rather demure 
(dare I use that word?) everyone soon understands that you have an incredible 
will and are amazing as self-discipline.  You also can, though passion and 
through logic, sway a room.

You have a constantly changing face.  At times I am taken by surprise by how 
beautiful you are – and in the same evening you can look like a hag – an 
interesting and compelling one – but very different. In all the years I’ve 
known you I never tire of watching to see how your face changes so completely.  
You have beautiful hands that hold your thoughts and your feelings – they 
tell so much about you.  You have lovely collarbones and a beautiful neck and I 
love the way you fold yourself into your couch when we sit down to talk.  You 
center yourself beautifully.

You are one of my dearest friends and every year I find you more compelling, 
more interesting and more fun to be with.  You are truly a unique and 
incredible woman and I am so happy that you are my friend.

Karla.
