Dear Jerome:

I have a sore shoulder so typing is not terribly comfortable, but it is more 
comfortable than lying in bed at this moment, and what else does one do at 3:44 
in the morning?  So I shall natter on at you until my shoulder or my ideas give 
out ...

I'm afraid that after this email you will think me a terrible boor and not 
worthy of your consideration, but they say confession is good for the soul and 
I have two horrid things to reveal  .... so here goes ....

1)  I spent yesterday wearing socks with sandals. 

I KNOW this is punishable in the very worst pits of hell, but I couldn't help 
myself.  We have had a spate of horrible, cold weather and I have switched from 
shorts to capris and now to pants (I think you call them trousers).  At this 
time of the year I usually put away my sandals and start to use my Bluntstones 
for walking but it just seems TOO soon.  The day before yesterday I tried 
sandals without socks and came home with toes white with cold and shivering all 
on their own, so yesterday, a full day at work, two meetings and a rehearsal, 
was spent with socks and sandals.  To make matters worse, during rehearsals we 
are required to wear a rehearsal skirt, so the evening was spent in longish 
skirt which revealed bits of calf, then fuzzy socks and sandals.  Probably 
enough to make the strongest man faint ... but there you are.

2)  I quite like pigs.

I say this in response to the following remark ... sent by one of my other 
email buddies..... it got me thinking....

The Swine Flu paranoia is raging and everyone is carrying tubes of antiseptic 
gel for washing their hands. Probably not a bad thing, when you look at some of 
the parents you'd be inclined to think that pigs got involved somewhere in the 
family tree.

You see we had this uncle ...

My uncle Ed and his wife lived over the vegetable garden, through the orchard 
and across the field from us when I was growing up. So practically next door.  
My uncle Ed was the best kind of alcoholic ... happy, loud, indulgent and 
completely charming to us as children.  Before I was old enough to reach the 
pedals I would spend happy afternoons on his lap, driving his huge tractor. 
"Faster, faster!" I would yell as I drove us up and down huge hills and over 
quagmires - me steering and him operating the pedals. 

Uncle Ed had the kind of humor which included cans of nuts which seemed to 
explode when you opened them, spoons that melted when used to stir coffee and 
the like.  One year on my birthday he delivered my gift wrapped in a Japanese 
orange crate that had been screwed together and bound with various wires.... it 
took hours to unwrap.

And one year at Christmas ....

We always had Christmases together and, as a childless couple, Ed and his wife 
Blanche always gave extravagant presents.  We LOVED going there for Christmas.

One Christmas there were no presents for us under the tree.  We were curious as 
Ed always came up with something fantastic (angora sweaters, a trip to see the 
Ice Capades, movie theatre tickets, an excursion to Harrison Hot Springs with 
dinner included - these last as gift certificates, beautifully wrapped).  I now 
know that he had been on a terrible bender for the whole week before and had 
arrived home with a bunch of baby pigs.  After Christmas dinner, when we would 
normally have been given our gifts, he announced our presents were outside, had 
us put on our coats and boots and herded us out to his barns where we were each 
allowed to pick one piglet as our own.

My father was not too pleased - before we took our gifts home he had to fence 
an area and build a pig barn - but we were enchanted, and so began our long 
adventure in pig raising.  

Both my parents were raised on farms and they never confused farm animals and 
pets.  Our pigs were raised during the spring and summer, slaughtered in the 
fall, and sold or put in the freezer.  Somehow this was always fine with us 
children, in fact each year (because from then on we took on 4 baby pigs a 
year) they would be called "Pork Chop", "Crackling" , "Crispy Bacon" and 
"Hammy".  We felt that they should be given fair warning as to their fate.

As the most "outdoorsy" girl (I'm one of 3 sisters) it was my job to feed and 
water the pigs every day.  I credit my upper body strength to years of hauling 
water and feed twice a day.

And I learned to love pigs.

They are clean .. they only ever roll in the mud when they get over heated, and 
they prefer to be cooled by water ... so you can have a nice afternoon spraying 
them with a hose.

You never have to clean dropping out of a barn as they are quite fastidious in 
using one area of their pen only for such things - usually an area far removed 
from where they wander, sleep or root.

They are clever ... some batches quickly learned how to short out the electric 
fence meant to keep them in, and I have spent many an embarrassing early teen 
moment chasing escaped pigs through our neighbourhood, capturing them, and 
slinging them over my shoulder to put them back into their pens.

They root out all sorts of things in the ground, so, after 3 or 4 years, you 
can move the pen, level the ground and have the most wonderful lawns .... by 
the time I got married (in my parents back yard) we no longer had pigs but we 
had acres of beautiful lawns - all the roots and rocks loosened by pigs long 
ago eaten.

They can be taught to walk on leash.

They love a good scratch.

They listen (once they realize you have NOT come to bring them food) when you, 
as a teen, feel that no one in the world understands you.  You can go to the 
pig pen, scratch their backs and ears, and tell them all your woes.

Right.  Now that I have revealed that I am a complete yokel - I shall try to go 
back to sleep.  The anti inflammatory that I took before I started this letter 
seems to have kicked in and I hope that I won't have to visit a doctor tomorrow 
and beg for a cortizone shot ... which was the only thing that helped last time 
I had a shoulder like this.

off to try my bed again.

k
   


