breathing

when no one is around
I sometimes lie on the floor, just to keep breathing.
and want it to be warm enough for nakedness 
where all secrets are witnessed. 

I imagine
hands, climbing me like a tree,
from feet to thighs, to breasts to shoulders
with each rib kissed and each crevice nuzzled.

I know I can form no words against skillful lips
and a gaze may be a caress, like a palm on nipples,
a touch may be a way of speech,
a breath a declaration.

And my body 
vibrates like a harp spring in the purple scented air
when all I want is every man in the world, 
all at the same time.

so much detail goes unnoticed in the world.
women, trailing pheromones
are sweet,
an easy trail for a man to follow.

I am not made of sugar. 
though I dissolve my need in the confidence of an embrace
I do not melt.

the world is full of mysteries known only to women
we bleed with the moon 
no wonder it makes men crazy












will want him from her to the China, even if she never touches him

sex, the ultimate charade of safety

our bed is getting cold

could she pretend not to rejoice

spores, the sex cells, a mushroom's bliss in it's attempt to fill the world 
with it's mushroom progeny

a place I like to go – no where

swallow him alive, suck his juices, and like him from her fingers

breathed on the skin beneath her earlobe and her back arched like a reflex

by mutual agreement impossilbe to escape

sun lapped at her naked feet 

studied her like a bad mistake

a whole landscape can change in a snap

love inanimate things so desperately 

all the ironies of loss


short on sense, long on ambition

cows are a lesson in patience

chill of the morning chased outside where the sun would attack it

spied on her with her sensitive, fleshy tentacles of thought waving all around 
her

so colourful she looks lake she dropped down from another world where all the 
colours are brighter


bringing armloads of wood like bridesmaids bouquets

Loudest sound on earth is a man with nothing to do

odd, uncomfortable sensation that her physical presence would spoil the food


being a little kid in a big world with nobody taking you seriously is tough

no words are pure enough to touch it.

Hears music and words when it's raining

a white, trembling promises as old as the night

closed around her wrist in the darkness and into the deep moon shadow

a whole world of love we don't discuss

the ancient songs played out on the roof by the rain

teaches music and drama and “please shut up”  to children


dust motes danced up and down in the light, inhabiting their own carefree 
universe. 

Inhale and absorb the night

only thing to do with restlessness is to get up and keep it company

wrapped her in his softness, touched her face with the movement of trees and 
the odor of wild water for stones, 

We mainly love things with our eyes

forest isn't large enough for my greif 

to hold such significant emptiness

the impossibl menace of tis storm dancing on her forest

unawre hat she wuold never aghian be herself along, that solitude was the 
faultiest of human presumptions.

Falls asleep with Shakespeare and Wilde in her arms

where humans conceded to share their lives 

following a trail she can't be sure of, and she was used to being sure



a blind person's indifference to looking at her own face
seen inside her


==l
went to bed with him on her mind and got up with a pictor tucked in her belt
scent of a preditor

never laid claim to being decent
blossoms of bridesmaids bouquets
hopeful flower heads


feel his jaw against your skin just by looking at it

consider the world from a bug's point of view
a trial she was pre-ordained to fail


whisper of the nylon jacket
husk of a sweater, lying on the floor


"Cats and dogs rain upwards from the stage"


every quiet step is thunder to beetle life















breathing

when no one is around
I sometimes lie on the floor, just to keep breathing.
and want it to be warm enough for nakedness 
where all secrets are witnessed. 

I imagine
hands, climbing me like a tree,
from feet to thighs, to breasts to shoulders
with each rib kissed and each crevice nuzzled.

I know I can form no words against skillful lips
and a gaze may be a caress, like a palm on nipples,
a touch may be a way of speech,
a breath a declaration.

And my body 
vibrates like a harp spring in the purple scented air
when all I want is every man in the world, 
all at the same time.

so much detail goes unnoticed in the world.
women, trailing pheromones
are sweet,
an easy trail for a man to follow.

I am not made of sugar. 
though I dissolve my need in the confidence of an embrace
I do not melt.

the world is full of mysteries known only to women
we bleed with the moon 
no wonder it makes men crazy




i am a minute ticking by

I am a very long pause

I am a baby's wail

I am the ages of time

I am a the light at the end

I am an actor's dry beat

i am a minute ticking by



this tree trunk body samples the air for the scent of ecstasy  
which makes the world new
while the earth opens it's mouth 
and sings of passionate excesses
insistent as a lover's sigh

the air, after a hard rain, announces exuberant eroticism 
with much noise and no taste
and my naked body, scalded with cold, 
is placed in the centre of the universe
and left with nothing but a hot blush

let me recover my resting heartbeat
and keep an eye on paradise.
let me tell time with my skin
fighting for the kiss of epochs 
and the beginning of the world

in my pursuit of eternity
let me see with my skin, tongue, ears, and memory
and the stern ghosts of the fore-mothers
let my lips be hot as the burning bush
and my love a pure, distilled liquid 
that never ends













collision of strangers

how can you want a stranger
to enter your network,
give measure to your life?

pressed between people and expectations
a life, like ruby, garnet or diamond solitaire
intensifies, electrifies, clarifies

with words.

the collision of strangers
observes the silence by the clouds going by
and does not  absorb the space between them.

laughter can fill a friendship, like water fills a stream.
the sibilant percussion of letters
that empties your head of speech

and reflects

the dry ache, deeper than hunger, harsher than thirst
to tell your tale across the fields of circuits, 
the empty and ever lasting air.

and I am unwise on principal,
a magpie who shivers with cold and nonsense, 
with mad haste to burn my  passion and intuition.

a mystery

can lose it's grace
when caught in the hand but I
measure, treasure the specter

of beloved address which augurs
the  presence of an absence
with a madness of pure want.

I love the place the stranger makes for me.

2 a.m. irish coffee

invite a friend 
and
light the candles
break the seal on malt whiskey

and watch the kettle boil.  







i am a minute ticking by

I am a very long pause

I am a baby's wail

I am the ages of time

I am a the light at the end

I am an actor's dry beat

i am a minute ticking by

