
What is it about lying awake early in the morning that inspires confession?

and what's more ... what is it that THEN makes me want to get out of bed and 
confess to you?

I have no idea .. but here it goes ...

Confession - "I don't care for poetry."

That's what I was thinking about this morning, lying in bed.

I suppose I should not have said that I do not care for poetry, rather that 
poetry is a fearsome and strange landscape for me. Around most poetry, I feel 
as if I am entering a land where I have no road maps and where I can get lost 
and fall into alarming quagmires or pits. This is why I seldom read it myself, 
as I always feel I am missing a great deal. I quite love to have poetry read TO 
me, though. Especially by authors, because they know how to bring meaning and 
cadence to their work.

I am a true peasant.

For some reason I never studied poetry, and when I read much of it, I am lost 
and uncertain. However WORDS have always fascinated me. Their ability to trip 
over the tongue or wallow in the mouth when articulated, the delight of 
alliteration, the charm of metaphors, the magic of meter, the way a few words 
can summon a whole memory or evoke a sense. I am alway amazed at writers. Some 
use blunt sentences, some long, rambling phrases. But, when writers are true to 
their own style, they can evoke such things in our minds!

And some words, be they poems or, more often, lyrics stay with me. I regularly 
read Shakespeare’s sonnets, because they are so charming. As a child I would 
often dip into Longfellow, and have large chunks of his poems memorized (I 
never meant to memorize them .. but children seem to do these things without 
trying). Also some of the regular pieces, “Oh for a voice of thunder” by 
Blake, “In those years” by Adrienne Rich. Some Ginsberg, some Yeats, an 
eclectic and strange mix. I find the romantic poets can be beautiful or prissy, 
and the metaphysical guys just seem to get up my nose.

On the other hand how can one read:

Fie on sinful fantasy!
Fie on lust and luxury!
Lust is but a bloody fire,
Kindled with unchaste desire,
Fed in heart, whose flames aspire
As thoughts do blow them, higher and higher.
Pinch him, fairies, mutually;
Pinch him for his villany;
Pinch him, and burn him, and turn him about,
Till candles and starlight and moonshine be out. (Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 
V, Scene 5)

without utter delight and joy?

I am sure you will be happy when I am back at work and no longer have time to 
write strange confessions to you, early in the morning.

k
