

Good morning:
Yesterday was a luxury day ... in the end I didn't leave the house ... not even 
to stick my nose through a chink in the door and test the temperature.  
Yesterday was an  "every time the phone went back on the hook there was a 
call" day
Also an " every time I went to my computer there was a "why is your phone off 
the hook" message" day.
In other words .. it was "blurt factor" day.
A lot of people in my life are going through things they want to share ... good 
and bad.
I hasten to add that my blurt factor does not mean I spend a lot of time 
solving anyone's problems.  My function is normally to listen and sometimes to 
ask questions.  My friends and family are smart, they can and will figure out 
what to do ... they just need to work it through.
But, as I hung up the phone at different times yesterday, I got to thinking 
that I needed a really good hardware store.
I could drift into it every once in a while and chose a beautiful bucket, and 
fill it with all kinds of tools.  Special tools.  Small, intricate screw 
drivers with which to dismantle your electronic devices or your friendships and 
rebuild them into something which works better; large pipe wrenches with 
extraordinary adapters to fix plumbing problems and turn off your own tears 
when they weren't wanted; specialized saws to cut through unwanted branches on 
apple or cherry trees and sever unfruitful relationships; zap straps of all 
sizes to hold together cables and self esteem.  We would also need glue to 
repair relationships, pliers and tweezers to take back words that should not 
have been spoken. How I wish I had access to these things! 
I could fill the pretty bucket with them all then deliver them to various 
friends.
"there you are, a tool kit" I could say, "now get to work and fix yourselves, 
you have the tools!"
if only life were that simple!






I love the idea of a relationship hardware store... Glue to repair 
relationships, pliers and tweezers to take back words that should not have 
been spoken. How I wish I had access to these things! 
 
Alisa

