Dear Abed:
How lovely to hear from you!
I laughed at your depiction of the young bloods who refuse to bundle up.  We 
have them here too.  In fact, my son was one of them.  From the time he was 
13 years old, he refused snow boots and resolutely wore his running shoes when 
walking anywhere.  I suspect he had permanently cold and wet feet each winter 
during his teen years.
The boys here also wear shorts and t shirts only most of the winter .. even 
when the temperature drops to -10 C.  My theory is they just eat all the time 
to keep warm.
One year, when my son was in grade 11 - he and all the cast and crew of the 
school production of "Guys and Dolls" did the annual "run to Dennys" after one 
performance.  This involves leaving the theatre and running to a local 
restaurant after the first night's performance in your underwear (about a 
kilometer).  Once you GET to the restaurant, you put your clothes (which you 
carried) back on, and the entire cast and crew celebrates the first night with 
a love in that starts about 11:30 p.m. and goes until 1:30 when the director 
pleads with everyone to go to bed as they have both school AND a performance 
the next night.
As the manager of the theatre, I was always involved in the productions .. 
usually designing lights and on the lighting console during the shows and so 
was always at Dennys with the kids.  
That particular year my son (the instigator) and several of the boys in the 
cast, decided that they would streak down the railway tracks.  So, after the 
time in the restaurant, about 14 of the boys dropped all their clothes on the 
siding of the railway (next to the restaurant) and wearing nothing but 
footwear, went for a run along the tracks.
You have to remember this is in December, in northern BC.
I watched them disappear then calmly scooped up all their clothes and put them 
in the back of my car, locked it, then leaned nonchalantly against my 
vehicle.  
You can imagine their consternation when they got back.
"Ms. Hennig!  Ms Hennig!"  they called, as they hid in the bushes at the side 
of the tracks "Someone Stole Our Clothes!"
It has become the stuff of school legend about the things I extracted ("you 
will go to Ms. Macleod - the director - and tell  her how brilliant she is, 
every day this week", "you will be ON TIME for the tearing down the set, no 
matter how late you stay at the after party", "you will offer to sweep out the 
pit before tomorrow's performance" etc. etc.) for each piece of clothing.  I 
still get stopped on the street by some of the boys involved and we laugh at 
the memory.

I love your expression "this wide, brown land"  it is so evocative!
So far no bites on the house ... I am thinking I am going to have to hire a 
real estate agent - and this makes me groan.  Still must needs ......

Around this time of year I am constantly at war with technology.  Right now 
the clock tells me it is 9:00 p.m. but I look up through the skylight and I 
think "6 p.m. tops".
The first year we moved to Masset on the Queen Charlotte Islands - which really 
should be in a different time zone from the rest of BC as it is so far west - I 
remember being outdoors one evening and mowing the lawn, then dragging out a 
chair to sit on the deck and read in the twilight.  My supposition was it was 
about 9 or 9:30 pm, but when I looked at my watch I saw, in horror, that I had 
been mowing the lawn at 11:00 p.m. and it was almost midnight and still it was 
possible for a keen pair of eyes to read a magazine outdoor.   No wonder there 
were no neighbours outside!  I baked many a pie in mea culpa gestures that 
week, delivering to people on all sides of us and explaining that I had quite 
lost track of the day and hadn't meant to keep everyone awake.
When we lived in Masset I had to tape cardboard over the windows in our bedroom 
so I could sleep - but still my body seems to know that the sun is out .. it 
wants to rise with the sun and enjoy the day.
According to the net - Terrace will have 17 hours and 13 minutes of daylight on 
June 21.  But our dawns and twilights are long .. not like those near the 
equator, and the day lingers on well past and before the sun actually hits the 
horizon.  
In northern countries it is the custom to stay awake all or most of the summer 
solstice night.
Though I am a comfortable atheist, I must admit that there is something about 
those times which makes me slightly uncomfortable.  It is on those long days 
which reach far into what should be night that you understand the urge to 
believe that the underworld is just out of reach.  Your senses are knocked out 
of kilter because what should be night is day and the night is too slow in 
coming, as if it is having too good a time somewhere else and reluctant to 
leave the party there to arrive at your town.
 
On June 21 this year ... an interesting blend of aboriginal days, father's day, 
and summer solstice(!) I am attending aboriginal day celebrations during the 
day and a symphony concert in the evening. 
The concert is on the other side of town and I shall most certainly walk 
there.  The plan right now is to walk home via "the bridges".  The walk to 
the show, through town, will take about 15 - 20 minutes.  Home, via the 
bridges takes me out of town, along the Skeena River and over two sets of 
bridges to get back home.  It is about 8 k which will take a couple of 
hours.  
I like the idea of setting out on a "journey home" at about 10:00 p.m. and 
walking over the last bridge close to midnight.

On such days it is best to put aside your rational mind as much as possible and 
indulge in the delicate delight of imagination.  Will singing imps be heard in 
the wind or ethereal beings appear in your peripheral vision if you allow 
yourself the luxury of not being quick to investigate with logic?  One of my 
delights when working was the daily walk home, especially after shows.  Two 
and a half k of star filled skies, or sidewalks bejeweled with frost, or harsh 
breezes that whipped the trees into frenzied animation.  These things feed the 
imagination.
When I head into town from my house now, I have a few constants to check in 
with each trip.  There are the hawthorn trees near the Telus parking lot who 
titillate us all year with the prospect of their flowers but who, this year, 
are besieged with tent caterpillars and look lost and droopy,  there is the 
flowering rose tree in a neighbour's yard that is now just past it's prime and 
looks like an old woman who has put on too much makeup in an attempt to look 
young and fresh, the almost dead lilac near the Family Place with it's 
determined few branches that still sport greenery even though most of the tree 
is filled with dead wood, and the wild lupins in the unkempt yards of some of 
the deserted houses on our street.  Sometimes I steal into those yards and 
stroke the icy blue fused petals - they are always surprising to touch - as 
they look as if they should be always cold and forbidding.
Today I am going to visit my friend, Liz, who is 79 years old and one of my 
role models.  An ex-geography teacher, at 75 she was determined to see the 
great rift valley so headed to Africa, "with my stick" (she is irritated that 
she now needs a cane).  Not being limber enough to climb into the back of 
jeeps, she gamely sat up front with the driver and endured too much sun and 
poor hotels but got to see the rift, went bird watching every morning, joined 
in the singing with several choirs along the way, coming back with some African 
songs which she learned by rote.  I love her positive attitude and her 
uncompromising ways.  She still goes bird watching every Tuesday, even though 
she is not very spry and must be careful of falls, she has been part of a 
poetry group which meets once a week and has done for over 30 years, she 
gardens and paints and lives alone.   And she has all her friends seduced by 
her gracious manner and her live intellect.  Two weeks ago, when I last saw 
her, she handed me Wolf Hall (which I now hear is a BBC mini-series) - a 
seductive book which I have just finished.  One of my best reads this year.
Liz lives on "the bench" a raised plateau above the city and I have determined 
to ride my bike to visit her.  The bench is a great obstacle in my brain.  It 
always seems impossible to conquer, even though I have walked up it many 
times.  It isn't far away and I have determined that I will break through my 
totally unrealistic fear of riding uphill and will attempt "the bench".  If 
worst comes to worst, I can always walk up and coast down.
Well, this has been a rambly note, hasn't it?  

