Dear Griff:

Thanks for your charming (as ever) email.  The day is getting closer but you do 
have the vague promise to get you through things.

BTW - thanks for the photo, but what I would REALLY like for your birthday is a 
few shots of you.  (Also btw  -  I think it is entirely proper that you send me 
a  gift on your birthday.  A picture of you would do nicely.)

And I am COMPLETELY on your wavelength about growing old disgracefully.  I keep 
trying to embarrass my son, but he doesn't embarrass easily.  I seem to be able 
to do or say anything and he takes it in stride.

Jennie has to have one or two faults (she seems pretty perfect up to now) - but 
I'm sorry that it's disliking HHGTTG ... which surely MUST be a staple of humor 
for people our age.  Sometimes, at our dinner table we have whole conversations 
which are merely lines from the series.  We all adore it and quote from it 
unashamedly.  One of the heartwarming things I know about Douglas Adams is that 
he was a good friend of Richard Dawkins.  And in some of Dawkins' lectures, he 
mentions things that Adams said in conversation.  It sounds as if his 
conversations were pretty similar to his writing.  Wouldn't you have liked to 
have been a fly on the wall one day when they got drunk together?

I love the fact that you have a neighbour called "Knut".  I'd have him around 
for drinks whenever I had friend over just to be able to say "this is our 
friend, Knut".  It would make me laugh just to say it.  And laughter is always 
a great way to start a drinks party.  Particularly if you have greeted guests 
with crowbar in hand (which I also think would be pretty funny).

Griff, my dear, you are entitled to have only 4 pairs of shoes, but women need 
MORE.  We need things to hike in, things to walk in, things to work in, and 
things to dance in.  These have to be comfortable and usually cost a huge 
amount of money.  We need one or two pairs that are attractive with heels that 
are not impossible, for when we have to walk to a pub or around the corner when 
going out for dinner.  (moderately priced) .  Then we need at least two pairs 
of CFM footwear ... my preference is one pair of shoes and one of boots.  
Impossibly high heels that your calves look great and make you feel really 
sexy.  I also keep my eyes open for shoes of impossible colours.  I have a high 
heels in red, green, hot pink and orange.  None of these cost more than $5.00 - 
I'm a believer in great sales for incidental shoes ... but there is something 
GREAT about having a pair of shoes that matches one's feather boa. I have a 
collection of feather boas .. which I throw on to dress up my ordinary blacks 
at time.  A feather boa always makes you feel dressed and sexy.

The trick, about birthdays, I think, is to ensure that your inner bits behave 
themselves.  The problem with having body parts that misbehave is that you can 
do little more than give them a stern warning.  No withering looks, no amount 
of beatings will work.  You have to leave that for other people.

Anyway, must call my mom and then head for the gym.

remember my Griff Birthday's gift, my dear!

k


>  
>     



