Dear Chris:

I have just survived a sleepover at the theatre, with 7 teen tech kids.  We 
started at 7:00 p.m.

The first thing we did (after ordering pizza) is break the rules.  The kids ran 
all around the theatre, into the "forbidden" areas like the fan rooms and the 
pin galleries.  I had promised the theatre teacher that I would get rid of some 
of the stuff in the pin galleries, so I had a bunch of big boxes ready, and I 
sent the kids up, and they got to pitch things over the pin gallery rail, and 
try to hit the boxes ... luckily there wasn't any thing that would shatter.  
Then we went through the lost and found costume area and the kids dressed 
themselves and me up a lot.

We did my family's fortune telling game .. complete with fortunes, bowl of 
water and walnut shells with lit candles floating around and setting light to 
fortunes.

Pizza and salad arrived the were vacuumed up.

Then we played a series of games ...

What?  - which is a series of silly questions that you compete to answer (i.e. 
"What skill should Karla learn this year?"  - best answer chosen by group "to 
French kiss gargoyles.")

Cookies, chips, and other treats were set out.

We played the hat game ... a three tiered game of description, charades, and 
word association.

More treats were brought out.

We played pictionary, with large sheets of paper, and spirited drawing and lots 
of made up rules.

Another round of fortunes.

By this time it was after midnight.

We hooked up the projector and the DVD player, brought down the screen, hooked 
everything through the theatre speaker system, popped an insane amount of 
popcorn and settled down to watch Jurassic Park.  At 2:00 p.m. I was ready for 
bed and bid them goodnight, as I took myself off to my office.  They were 
preparing to start another movie.

At 4:00 a.m. I was wakened by thumps, and worried that someone had hurt 
themselves, I went into the theatre.  The kids had taken up the screen, 
conscientiously put away the projector and the DVD player, and had turned on 
the lighting board and were playing charades to a fantastic lighting chase they 
had programmed into the console.  They had not yet slept.

I went back to bed, but woke on and off to hear more laughter and chatting and 
thumping.  Around 6:00 a.m. it finally got quiet.

At 8:00 I got up and cleared up the pizza boxes and paper plates etc. from the 
night before and made coffee and hot chocolate and warmed up the croissants I 
had purchased for the morning.   I noticed that the rest of the pizza (which I 
had put into the fridge the night before) had disappeared.

Got the kids up at 9:00 - where they were quiet and sleepy, but managed to eat 
all the croissants.

As I have a show this evening, I sent them to sweep up the stage (where they 
had slept) and bring out the grand piano for me.  Then I gave them the tech 
rider to see if they could set, but they weren't thinking very well so, after 
they left (being picked up by their parents) I had to re:hook things into my 
system.

I'm just about the head off home to shower and see if I can grab a few more 
hours of sleep.  I have to be back at the theatre at 4:00 for sound check.

I have noticed with interest, that there seems to be a tear in the time/space 
continuum here at the theatre.  One of my red fuzzy socks, that I KNOW I was 
wearing last and only took off when I crawled into my sleeping bag, seems to 
have disappeared.  I have looked everywhere.  No doubt it will re-appear in 
another dimension.

Oh, DAMN!.  

I hadn't meant to go on so long about last night and HAD meant to talk about 
other things.. but I need to go home and sleep if I am to function at all well 
this evening.

more later, I promise.

k


	
