Dear

Just back from a great choral weekend in Smithers, with a lot of firsts: first 
workshops with Jim Sparks and Morna Edmundson, first exposure to rote music 
method, first time visiting the Smithers pool, first time at an “Earth 
Hour”, first time doing “band karaoke”.

It was an interesting weekend.

I headed out to Smithers on Friday and in the evening we had a session with 
both adjudicators.  In the Smithers theatre, 6 choirs performed 2 songs each 
and after each set the adjudicators would come up and work with the choirs.  
This was probably the least successful part of the weekend, as the adjudicators 
hadn’t assessed the skills of the groups yet and the organizers hadn’t 
given them enough time… I felt it was $75.00 from the choir that was ill 
spent. (there was an entry fee) as we got very little feedback.  However - it 
was a good way to see all the people who were there for the weekend and to hear 
their choirs.

After a session at the bar, we all headed to bed and met the next morning (at 
least our choir did) in the breakfast room of our hotel.  I had an hour walk 
with one of the choir members - through the still snowy paths around Smithers - 
then headed to the school and theatre for workshops.

My first workshop was “Canadian Folk Songs”.  Morna is the co-conductor of 
the Electra Women’s Choir in Vancouver and was one of those accomplished 
people who are just able to impart SUCH an amount of knowledge without making 
it seem like any effort.  In our warm up she mentioned overtones, and with the 
puzzled glances from some of the singers proceeded to show us.

She had us all sing one note (one octave apart, of course as there were men and 
women in the session) on a vowel and, as we changed the vowel, you could hear 
another tone - a fifth higher - just pop into the room.  Although we were all 
singing an E - you would swear that you could hear a distinct voice also 
singing a B.  Then she moved some of the basses down and as our vowels got 
purer, you heard a lower G.  I have heard overtones before, but not with such 
clarity.  

Then we proceeded to work on 4 new folk songs.  She is a sure and able 
conductor and, with good sight readers in every section, we were able to go 
through all the music with ease.  With one song, however, we constantly went 
flat so she ran us through some solfège exercises with hints on which tones to 
watch - because they were the ones that pulled a choir down.  After 2.5 hours 
of work with her I walked out of the class feeling that I had a HUGE new tool 
to use in singing, more understanding of the physics of music AND 4 new folk 
songs that I had at least met.

After the lunch break I went to “World Music” with Jim Sparks.  He is just 
back from a project in Kenya and is very interested in how the rest of the 
world learns and “does” music.  He said that we were part of the 2% of the 
world’s population who used notation to learn music and he was going to teach 
us the rote method.  He first taught us a song from Kenya.  First he had us 
repeat the words, then clap the rhythm, then say the words in rhythm, then he 
introduced the bass line, added the tenor line, added the alto line and added 
the soprano line.

As we were working I kept thinking “I can’t DO this … this is impossible 
… there is NO WAY I can remember the words, let alone a melody that keeps 
shifting”.   (The words were in a different language, of course, so they were 
just sounds to me - and foreign sounds at that).

He had a drummer with him, and the drum was integral to the whole thing, as we 
had to hang the words on to the beats or the silences of the drum.  About half 
way through that song it was if my brain clicked and it somehow felt easy.  It 
felt that the music was going into my body, and not being held in my head.  

After we did that, we used the same method with a song from northern Canada - 
in a language that apparently only 400 people now speak.  This time, learning 
the piece took about half the time the first one had, and I felt as if my body 
sort of knew how to set the mind “deconstructing service” aside and just 
worked on absorbing the words and the melody line into my body.

THEN Jim handed out a Cuban piece which was written in notation.  It was one of 
those nasty, meter changing pieces, which I always have a difficult time 
reading, because I’m not good with reading rhythm, and it made me understand 
that SOME music is much better learned through the body.  

After we stumbled our way through that (badly), we finished with a song from 
south Africa - Pata Pata.  Here is a link to the song - but I can’t find 
anything with the choral stuff that comes before the soloist.  Think of the 
choir singing the stuff that the 4 back up singers are singing and also some of 
the stuff that the soloist is singing in this clip - but in 4 part harmony.

(http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L6w1u8o9ZBc&feature=related)

After that class we had a break and I headed to the pool to do some laps and to 
sit in the hot tub.  One of the kids I had met over the theater festival 
weekend is applying to an acting school in Vancouver and had contacted me for 
advice on his audition, so, as he was a lifeguard, I arranged to meet him at 
the pool.  After my swim, and on his dinner break, we had half an hour to go 
over the pieces he was looking at and to discuss various things about auditions.

Then I headed to the choral evening that was planned by the committee.  It was 
held in an old church - which is now a meeting hall, but it had superb 
acoustics.  After a good dinner, it was “earth hour” - a time for everyone 
to turn off all lights and electricity and spend an hour NOT using technology.  
It was absolutely incredible.  We took down the tables and sat in a circle, 
and, in candlelight, we sang.  There was nothing really planned, so people 
would suggest songs and the guitarists would lead, and we would sing.  There 
were no songs that everyone knew - but enough people would know the words - and 
others would harmonize; sometimes we were singing in 8 to 10 part harmonies 
just because people could.  Some people got up and taught us rounds, some 
people taught simple folk songs.  It was lots of fun, and we stretched it to an 
hour and a half just because there were so many good songs around once we got 
started.  It was interesting to think that, for most of human history, this is 
how people spent their evenings; in the dark, singing or talking. 

When the lights came back on the band (bass, guitar, steel guitar, fiddle and 
drummer) got up an announced they were our karaoke band and they had a list of 
songs they knew, and two microphones set up.  For the rest of the night people 
sang with the band and others danced.  Some people were accomplished and 
polished, some people were horrid and funny, but it didn’t matter - we all 
had a wonderful time.

And, as the 6 people responsible for cleaning up after the night were also part 
of the choral weekend, at the end of the evening about 20 of us stayed behind 
and put away chairs and washed dishes and swept up - so they wouldn’t have 
such a huge job.

On Sunday morning we were all back at the theatre for a session on Gospel 
music.  It was part rote, part notation.  At that point I was feeling confident 
enough to sing a solo in the call and response part of one of them, and it was 
just great - doing the call and having 80+ people respond back in 6 part 
harmony.

After 2.5 hours of singing - and learning 3 new songs, we decided that, rather 
than end the weekend, the people from each of the 4 workshops of the day before 
would come up and do something from that workshop.  I would have sworn to you 
that I had completely forgotten the three rote songs from the day before, but 
the moment I heard the intro drumming, the words and melody flooded back.  I 
was even able, when Jim pointed at me, to step out of the crowd with two others 
and sing the call of the call/response song from Northern Canada.  The World 
Music people performed the 3 songs they had learned the day before, the Folk 
song people 2 of our 4 - so I was on the stage a lot at the end … something 
that always pleases me.

So now I am back home, and real life is rearing its head.   Laundry is in the 
machine, and I have dancers arriving this afternoon at the theatre for 
rehearsals all afternoon and evening.  

But, oh, how wonderful it is to have a weekend that feeds the music in you.

Okay, I have been at the computer for too long, and it is time to do those 
mundane things of life …

talk with you soon.

k


