
So I am now 54 - hmmm  .... seems MUCH too old for the woman who is sitting 
here (nursing a bad back)

I spent my birthday ….

a) - being supportive (morning)
b) - sulking and feeling oppressed and resentful (afternoon)
c) - being pampered, feeling lucky and purring (evening)

a)  I have an ex-tech kid who is just back from college.  She's having a hard 
time, so I invited her to lunch, and listened to her woes and tried not to tell 
her to pick her socks up .... (she's mad that she actually has to WORK at 
college).

b) I came home from lunch to find both my guys out .. it was my birthday and 
they hadn't cleaned up the kitchen after themselves, they hadn't unloaded the 
dishwasher, they hadn't even put away the laundry I had folded and left for 
them, they hadn't dealt with anything.  So (as you know I had to wash the floor 
in the morning) - I felt sorry for myself and decided to CLEAN THE HOUSE - you 
can get a lot done when you are feeling martyred. G came home as I was weepily 
going through the piles of paper on the counter and putting away folded laundry 
and in the process of unloading the dishwasher (I'm scattered when I'm doing 
housework).  He gathered me into his arms, said "I love you, happy birthday" 
and WENT AND SAT DOWN AND READ THE PAPER!  He got a ear full of "I'm the only 
one who does ANYTHING around here" and "whenever you do a bit of laundry or 
tidy the kitchen you think you should get a medal!" and "It's my birthday and 
you don't even CARE that I have to spend the damn day picking up after 
everyone" and similar bits of "the lecture".  Then, having cleaned up the 
house, I stomped upstairs to look at my email and at FB.

c) to find my friend, Diana, who is currently an out patient in Vancouver, 
getting radiation for stage 2 throat cancer, had to be admitted yesterday as 
she suddenly could not swallow anything, including water.  All of a sudden, an 
untidy house doesn't mean all that much.  I went downstairs to apologize to G 
when a flurry of flowers arrived, roses from some of my tech kids, a HUGE bunch 
of spring flowers from my sister, a bunch of Gerber daisies and mums from my 
co-worker, Robin, and more roses from my ex-co-workers from my Women's Centre 
days.  So my house is FILLED with flowers. (and clean and tidy too!)

By that time Sandy had returned from work and he and G set up the sun room so 
that we could sit around and have dinner together NOT at a table (I love long 
dinners in arm chairs when we have time to sit and chat).  They set out a 
small, low table and lit candles and the three of us had a lovely time.  G had 
brought in a curry dinner ...

first course - vegetable samosas
second course - chicken satays and spinach orange salad
main course - mango chicken with rice and roasted vegetables
dessert - dark chocolate and brandy (which I shouldn't have but, what the hell)

We all sat and talked and laughed and spent the evening together.  So it was a 
lovely birthday after all.

k

