Dear Everyone:

Once again I’m back from my summer vacation, and am sending out a group 
email. Some people got my missives during the summer, others didn’t. This was 
mainly due to whose email I had managed to NOT lose over my many moves. If you 
got fewer and fewer, it was probably because I lost your email or the dial up 
machine I was using on Mudge Island just decided to drop a few addresses to 
spice up my life.

Anyway, thanks for NOT sending pictures, etc. this summer, with dial up, it is 
almost impossible to receive large files.

I thought I would send a few emails outlining my “what I did this summer” 
to you all. I hope this isn’t going to be too boring for you - but comfort 
myself by remembering that ALL computers have a delete button….
so here goes - the first of my summer ….

“Mainstage”

This year I left Terrace on June 28 and drove to Kamloops to attend Mainstage, 
the Theatre BC 10-day blowout of award winning plays, workshops and all things 
theatre related.

I stayed at a B and B which I call the “cat pee B and B” because of the 
slight cat odor that lingers in the house. But the B and B was great for my 
purposes. It was only 12 or 14 blocks away from the two main theatres, so 
within walking distance to whichever venue I was attending. The other people 
staying there were also Mainstage participants, so breakfast conversation was 
fun; it was only 5 blocks from downtown, and I had full use of the kitchen.

It was 10 days of workshops, plays, and hot, beautiful weather. I saw all the 
plays of the festival, and was invited by TLT to join the crew of the Skeena 
winner “The Secret Garden”. I was honoured to be in the crew, and had a 
lovely time backstage - being on headset and doing the backstage cueing and 
support for the cast. At one point a 10 year old, Ella, lost her contact lens, 
came off stage and calmly handed it to me, then went back in time for her cue. 
I was SO impressed by her self confidence. The children in the cast were all 
given honourable mention for “novice actor” and Ella received the award.

I took 8 workshops over the 10 days, of which 4 were great and 4 were poor or 
mediocre. I particularly enjoyed the stage violence, full day workshop, and the 
ones on stage management and sound design (yes, Patrick, I promise to get my 
notes to you soon). Greenroom parties were good, and got better and better as 
more and more people arrived over the week. Each night I would promise myself 
to only dance a little bit and to get home early, but it wasn’t to be. Part 
of the charm of Kamloops is the heat that lingers through the night, so I would 
leave the green room at 1:00 or 2:00 a.m. and walk in complete comfort to my B 
and B.

I also visited the farmer’s market and had lovely, fresh salads every night 
for dinner, and took time out between classes and coffee critiques to explore 
the parks around Kamloops. It was a lovely 10 days.

Pictures:

checking out the silent auction
production on a shoestring classes (2)
costuming class (2)
stage violence (2)
Secret Garden get in - outside the stage entrance
Grand PuBa night - initiation of Mainstage Virgins

Next section ... on to adventure!!!!
