Hi all:

Thanks for the responses that have come in. It has been great to hear from you, 
and I’ll reply ASAP. Today is my big push before the Eagles concert on 
Wednesday - so my brain is pretty much in work gear - not chatty and relaxed.

But, while I have a few minutes this morning, I’ll continue with my summer 
story….

On to adventure….rural

When I left Kamloops, I had a few days with my sister, Kris. After 10 days of 
theatre, wonderful as it was, I was ready to get out of town and not be so 
structured.

Kris drove up from the island and we met in Lytton. We had a few days together, 
doing a self walking tour of Lytton (which doesn’t take long, let me tell 
you), exploring the parks in the area, viewing an osprey nest, visiting 
Hell’s Gate, hiking around Blue Lake, visiting the Othello tunnels and taking 
in some white water rafting.

Of the days together, the white water rafting was the most exciting. We stayed 
at a “resort” which was really a glorified girl guide camp (canvas tents, 
eating shelter) with perks (hot tub). Our day on the river was sensational. At 
first we were rather unsure - we were the old ladies in a group of 20-something 
young men who had arrived for a stag. So they lay around in a post alcoholic 
stupor, or sang charming songs like “I’m an asshole” etc. But once we 
started talking to them they got very polite and friendly. The rafts held 8 
paddlers and a guide and we spent some time on a lake learning the strokes and 
being thrown out of the raft so others could have the experience of dragging us 
in.

We did two runs of the Nahatlatch River - about 16 k. of continuous white 
water. I had purchased a waterproof camera for pictures but we were so busy 
paddling that there wasn’t a hope. It was an amazing day. The runs, because 
of the adrenaline, seemed to take only about 15 minutes each - so we were 
amazed to find that we'd been on the river for 6 hours when we returned. Kris 
had done a motor raft trip down the Thompson some years ago where, she said, 
you ran a few rapids then lay about and took in sun. This was very different.

We also had some great hiking around Blue Lake - climbing up the mountains 
surrounding the lake and surveying the valleys, then returning to swim in the 
afternoons.

On to adventure….urban

When Kris had to return to work in Victoria I headed to White Rock to spend 
time with my friend Carol, and to New Westminster where my sister Ingrid and 
her husband have just moved.

I am SUCH a country mouse these days; so I REALLY enjoyed all those city things 
you can’t do in Terrace. I don’t know why, but I was thrilled to go to the 
newest Harry Potter movie in a movie theatre that: wasn’t disgustingly dirty, 
had raked seating that actually works, had comfortable reclining chairs, and 
had a showing that started close to midnight. We also visited the night market 
in Chinatown, attended a jazz concert where Tom Neville was playing, walked 
around Queens Park a lot. Later in the summer, we saw the Peking Acrobats, 
spent a day at the PNE, had time on “the drive” - Commercial Street in 
Vancouver, and “the strip” in White Rock where a dinner on a terrace 
provides an evening of people watching entertainment like no other. We also 
hiked around Burnaby Lake and were generally busy with urban stuff.

This summer I also caught up with many people I’ve been meaning to see for a 
while …. my theatre parents, an old theory and harmony teacher, aunts, 
cousins, uncles, and various friends and other relations. Unfortunately I 
missed Suzie and Robert - (Robert, I’m SO sorry I didn’t get to see you do 
improv) - but it was great to touch base with so many of the incredible people 
in my life.

Okay … last section to come … Mudge Island and it’s many challenges.

Take care all.

k.

Pictures
Kris in Lytton
Cook shelter - rafting resort
Raft prep
Nahatlatch River
Blue lake hike (2)
Alexander Bridge hike
Othello tunnels
Kate and me in Chinatown




















