Hi everyone:

Oh my - I just realized how much I’ve written and I still haven’t told you 
about the time on Mudge with my mom.

I’ll have to cut this short…..

After some time in Vancouver I went to Mudge to stay with mom and open up the 
house that Graham and I have on the island. The first two weeks I was with mom 
at her place, housecleaning, cooking like mad for the guests that she was 
having and watching it rain, rain, rain. It wasn’t one of those fabulous 
summers with the incredible blue skies and warm days but it was nice to be with 
mom. I was with mom at her island home and her friends a lot of the time 
(elderly people are interesting – they do things in their own time and in 
their own way), I did an awful lot of house work and canning, and cooking and 
washing walls, floors, cupboards, etc. Also I opened our house on the island 
… the second time I’ve done this … but this year I had a burst pipe in 
the kitchen of my gulf island house

This is what it sounded like:

Karla on the phone to Graham: “the soldering has come apart”

Graham: “no it hasn’t; things I solder don’t come apart”

K: “well, I’m standing here in three inches of water with a pipe in my 
hand, and it’s no longer attached” (He was right, actually, he hadn’t 
soldered that part, a friend had).

THEN

Karla on the phone to Dave, once a plumber, now a drummer, who lives on the 
island:

K: “I can do a lot of things but I don’t know how to solder copper pipe, 
and I’d prefer NOT to go through the summer with no hot water”.

D: “You know I’m just going off the island … ”

K: “Please, please, please, please, not only will I pay you, I won’t tell 
ANYONE that you did any plumbing, please, please, please, please, please.. “

D: Look, I’ll tell you how to do it.

K: Dave, it will be faster and there will be fewer phone calls if you’d just 
come and do it … please, please, please, please, please …. Etc. etc.

AND

Karla on the phone to Graham: “We’ve had otters under the house … the 
insulation is pulled down, and they’ve made these little hammocks with the 
wire, and there are droppings everywhere...

G: make sure you wear a mask when you go under to clean up.

K: Ummm…. I thought I might wait for you to get here …

G: Why would you do that?

K: Well, Okay, I’ll start on the clean up … I just hope they were REALLY 
itchy all winter

(But I have to say I never DID get around to cleaning things up until Graham 
came down … you just can’t tell what REALLY important things come before 
the prospect of shoveling up otter poop)

AND

Karla on the phone to Graham: “There’s a septic tank smell in the house, 
and I don’t know what’s caused it”

G: Probably the vent.. you’ll have to take it off the house and clear it. 
Borrow Dave’s 40 foot ladder, take a screwdriver up and take out the screws 
in the brackets that hold it to the house, take it off, clean it and put it 
back”

K: Right

You know, people have called me many things in my life, but they’ve never 
called me delicate. No one has ever said “oh, let me take that for you, 
it’s too big/heavy/awkward, etc. etc.” In another life (after I’ve 
already come back as a tulip, a sea otter and a redneck, right wing white male) 
I’m coming back as one of those little petite, baby doll looking women whom 
everyone jumps to help out.

But Graham and Alex did make it down this summer. Alex brought his friend 
Lowell and the two of them spent time in Vancouver, visiting friends from SALTS 
(girls of course). Alex also went to visit the Maguire cousins in Langley. We 
had very little company this year, probably a good thing as the weather was 
pretty bad, but we did have Brenda and Jocelyn, and Ingrid, Robert and Kate 
came out to stay with mom for a week.

Somehow, the month slipped by and we were closing up the house for a year. 
Graham and Alex headed north and I went back into town as I had a wedding to 
attend …. that didn’t happen, but that’s another story.

Okay, I think we’re all caught up …..

Looking forward to hearing from you

Karla


Pictures:

Mom and Bob - Mudgites
Mom in her garden
Mom in her kitchen
Jocelyn on Mudge - with me and her mom x several
Don and Bernard - friends from Quebec, who biked from Victoria to Quebec city
Alex and me at the Mudge Festival
Band at the Mudge Festival
Under the house with Otter poop
Dodds Narrows x 2
Mudge shots x 2
Alex's 17th birthday



