Hi everyone:

I'm trying to write a bit every night .. practice, practice .. so please feel 
free to delete.  Just trying to establish a routine, and those of you who have 
been to Mudge will recognize many things.

thanks for being patient, but please do feel free to delete without reading

k




It was 4:00 p.m. when we all arrived.  The rocks at the point were full of 
people, dogs, life jackets, wet suits.  

I was there in the kayak as a "support person" meaning that I am not a very 
strong swimmer, and I didn't want to brave the cold waters that day.

The Weather's Way Olympics (staged over the last few days) was now at the 
swimming event.  We have had Bollo Ball (where my partner, Nate and I were a 
disappointing 4th), Badminton (Simon and I scored a silver), Bocce (I was 
painting and couldn't attend) and now swimming.

Some brilliant neighbour had decided the group should swim from Mudge to 
Gabriola.

Now, if you look at the distance, it is paltry, but, ever since we have been 
kids, our parents have been warning us about the dangers of currents, 
undertows, boats going through the channel and the like.  But this was the 
Weathers Way Olympics and some brave souls were determined to try.

Our 6 swimmers had a variety of backgrounds:

60-something Rick, a psychiatrist from New York, sported bright red shorts and 
a red bandana, so we could spot him in the water.  He was the "Johnny 
Weissuller" of the group.  No wussy wet suit for him (actually I don't think 
he has one)

40 something Pete - from Nanaimo - was an obvious ringer - with full, fitted 
wet suit and goggles

30-something Marnie (event planner) and Stephanie (librarian) were more 
concerned about getting their children into boats, life jackets and into wet 
suits than worrying about themselves.

Teen Harriet, in beautiful bikini didn't want to wear the wet suit her mother 
was urging on her.

11 year old Simon was in a life jacket and kept telling his mother that he 
could do it, he could do it.

The start was ragged - with people entering the water as they could.  

Along with the swimmers were 3 kayaks as spotters, a row boat carrying various 
children who hadn't been allowed to try and a motor boat with more children and 
towels, tea, etc. for the swimmers when they reached the other shore.

The current was mild and actually helped the swimmers across the channel - but 
the bull kelp sections were a little "yuck".  

In the middle of the channel the swimmers found a reef and some of them could 
actually stand up for a second before they continued on their way.

All the swimmers hit the Gabriola shore easily and towels and congratulations 
were distributed.  It was decided that it was gold all round.

We had to wait for a log boom and a house boat to go through before we headed 
back.

Dave relayed the swimmers back to Mudge in his motor boat ... onlookers who had 
been with him were consigned to the row boat - so swimmers wouldn't get too 
cold.

Kayakers made their own way back.

We were to have the ping pong championships that night, but somehow the evening 
instead evolved into sitting around a campfire in Peter and Sandy's back yard 
and roasting marshmallows.  Graham put an air mattress into the little cart, 
hooked it to his mother's old scooter and gave the kids rides for a while, and 
then everyone had their faces painted by the youngest of  children.  A lot of 
women around the fire sprouted beards and mustaches.  

As my niece Amara would say, "another Mudge evening floor show"


