
I had a most interesting and wonderful evening yesterday.
G has not been feeling well, and couldn't even manage a bowl of soup, so I put 
him to bed about 5 and contemplated what I could/should do to fill my evening.
I decided to go through "the box".
As I'm sure you would have guessed, my house is full of sheet music.  The 
things I am working on are in piles on the top of the piano or on the little 
stool beside the piano.   In the piano bench are selections of stuff that was 
on the piano when I got home (stuff Sandy left and may need again), a copy of 
the Messiah .. so I can look up any part I am not sure of .... some Christmas 
stuff, and other bits and pieces.
On the bookshelf there is a LARGE pile of stuff.. songbooks from different 
eras, some music I mean to get to, fun stuff to sight read, and misc. choral 
stuff that I don't want but just can't throw out.
Downstairs there is a four drawer filing cabinet .. filled with theatre and 
music stuff.

And there is "the box" in the music room closet.
"The box" started years ago when everything else was full, and it was a place I 
would use to throw in misc. music stuff.  Over the year it has become 
stuffed.  

Every once in a while (usually in a January when I'm into organizing) I go 
through "the box" and try to get it into some kind of order. OR, every once in 
a while, when I'm searching for some music that I think must be SOMEWHERE, I 
paw through it.
I tell you, even the most organized person would not know how to approach it.  
How do you separate the various bits?  Piano, voice and recorder for sure, but 
then .. classical and jazz?  SATB and solos?  accompanied and a cappella?  
sheet and book?  there are so many options.

I could see my various attempts as I went through "the box".   One year I 
started a three ring binder and added voice stuff .. sacred and popular and 
canon.   One year I started a Christmas file, one year I got all the piano 
duets together.  
Anyway, I spent the evening (and it took several hours) to go through the whole 
box and actually make decisions.  I have about 4 inches of books and music to 
be given to the local church, maybe the choral director can use that stuff .. I 
have another 3 inches of paper that is going in the garbage .. you aren't 
supposed to photocopy music, but I do - it's easier to handle.  Anyway, that 
stuff is going because I have it somewhere in some book - which I may find 
again.
I have one full and sealed box marked "Piano and vocal music for Penticton" 
waiting to be taken downstairs, and I have only about 4 more inches in "the 
box" that needs to be handled.  I was getting to the point where I could now 
longer make decisions.

But how lovely it was to go through "the box" at my leisure.  I could take out 
some music, flip through it, hum a bit of it, and remember where I was when I 
was playing/singing/hearing it.  Music I didn't even remember had my scribbles 
in the margin .... "BREATH HERE!!!!", or "Listen for the tenors" or "completely 
lift your hands, then DOWN".  It was a version of taking out a box of photos, 
all jumbled up, and reliving moments of your life in the order they emerged 
from their container.

