
We have had a particularly lovely long weekend so far ... despite the fact that 
I seem to be winning a prize for muddle headedness.

Saturday was a brisk, windy and crisp day.  After a long telephone conversation 
with my sister (during which I managed to change the bed, sweep the upstairs 
and wash 2 windows - I LOVE cordless phones) I walked down to the farmer's 
market and bought way too many veggies for the week.  I then had a call from my 
friend Dina who wanted to go for a walk, so we met and walked up several of the 
Hirsh Creek trails - most of which I had never been on before, and discovered a 
HUGE stand of rose hips, which I will harvest later in the season when I want 
to decorate the house for Christmas.  It was about a 2.5 hour walk, of talking 
and laughing and just enjoying each other (Dina is one of my dearest friends) 
and then I came home and made ginger tea and read my latest book (the Wisdom of 
Whores) while the squash was roasting in the oven, made a quick salad and G and 
I settled down in a warm, fragrant dining room for a lovely, relaxed meal, 
before I cleaned up the kitchen and he headed for the bath.  The weather is 
cold and crisp, and the leaves are a brilliant yellow or red.  We have had SUCH 
a lovely fall.

Sunday was ALSO bright and cold.  I was up early, making pie crust for 5 pies 
and sipping coffee and peeling apples.  By 7:00 a.m. all the apples were peeled 
(some from the two trees in our back yard, some store bought ... I find apple 
pies are best with a variety of apples) and I had added sugar and then leaned 
over to dump a LOT of cinnamon into the mix ... and discovered I had just added 
a huge amount of season salt.  Try as I might, there was no rescuing the apples 
... even rinsed they tasted of garlic - so they went into the compost and I had 
to start again.  Safeway wasn't open yet, so I used all the store bought apples 
I had left, then headed out to the back yard to see if there were any apples on 
the trees that we had missed.  And it was frosty, and I lost my footing, and I 
bumped down 4 stairs to land with sore backside and all dignity gone on the 
cold, damp grass.  The apple pies were proving to be jinxed.

I did find a few apples I could use, mostly windfalls, and, with the help of 
the last zucchini in the garden to fill things out ... two "apple" pies were 
re-made with cinnamon. Leaving the apple pies open, I proceeded to make 2 
pumpkin pies, then put the top crusts on the apple pies ..

WAIT, did I add flour to the apples?  NO!  - pry off crust and sprinkle on 
flour.  Replace crust.

WAIT, did I add butter?  NO!   - pry off crust and add butter. Replace crust

WAIT, did I add lemon juice?  NO!   - but there was no way I was going to take 
those damn crusts off again ... so they went into the oven as is

(it was only after I had taken them out of the oven I discovered I had 
neglected to cut slits for the steam.  However, such is mom's great pastry 
recipe, that even a muddle headed idiot can't mess it up too much, and the 
pastry was absolutely fine).

Because I had a Nunsense rehearsal that day, I had arranged with Dina that I 
would arrive early, so I could have some time with her family.  G and I arrived 
at 11:00, pies in hand, and had 2 hours with Dina and her family, working in 
the kitchen, playing with the children, before the other guests arrived.

And everyone sat down to Thanksgiving dinner at 1:45 - which was PRECISELY the 
time I had to leave for my 2:00 p.m. rehearsal.

Dance rehearsal - for 1.5 hours .. which was enough to get everyone in the 
room, even those NOT dancing ... sweating.   It was a tap hat and cane song, 
and three of us (all none dancers) are doing it.  But after last week's 
"hitchycoo, ball change, pivot step" lessons, "crump rolls, toes, heels, 
shuffles and brushes, grape vines,  and stomps" didn't seem too difficult.  The 
hardest thing will be to sing, have enough breath to stay in harmony and 
remember to keep the canes moving together.  We've got a month.
.
Dance rehearsal ended, we had time to get into rehearsal costumes and veils and 
we were into our acting rehearsal.   We were starting act 2 - and I was the 
only nun not off book - which meant I slowed things down a great deal .... 
which means I have to put some SERIOUS time into lines this week.  I have act 1 
almost word perfect but haven't spent any time at all on act 2.

I got back to Dina's absolutely STARVING at 5:45.  We all stayed until 9:00 
p.m. and the children were beginning to get unraveled.  There were lots of 
children and lots of friends, some of whom I sing with, other I have acted with 
in the past, and a new couple, just moved to Terrace from Masset, which meant 
we had lots to talk about.

This morning I have washed the floor of the sun room and should really finish 
this off and put back the furniture.  We have another acting rehearsal this 
morning (all of Act 1 - which includes the puppet, Mary Annette -still my 
weakest bit - my accordion solo, AND the newly choreographed tap dance).  We 
head off for Thanksgiving celebration #2 in the early afternoon with friends 
Rebecca and Tim, then I have a choir rehearsal this evening.  So I better go 
get the sun room stuff back into place, and throw the ingredients for my 
spinach/strawberry salad vinaigrette together so they can cozy up to each other 
for a few hours.  I should also look over the new woman's piece of music that 
Michael handed out at the end of last Monday's choir rehearsal .. I haven't 
even cracked its cover yet.

The sun is bright and the leaves beckon,  but somehow I can't see walking to 
rehearsal hauling a large puppet, sequined cowboy boots, tap shoes and a 
shamelessly bright red accordion.

happy Thanksgiving.

k



