some random thoughts for you .....
So this story has ensconced itself in my head and I fear I will have to write 
it to get it out.  The only thing that is stopping me is I don't know if it is 
a theatrical vignette or a short story.
The story behind the story.
My sister, Kris, loves, loves, loves trees.  
On our walks through Butchart Gardens and at Royal Roads, while I was 
oooowwwing over the peonies, poppies and iris flowers and ahhhhhing over the 
Camilla bushes and the rhodos, she was stroking the barks of various trees and 
saying things like "I LOVE willows, if I had enough water at Mudge, I'd plant a 
hedge of them right to the sea" or "Am I the only person in the world who 
adores the way cottonwoods release their cotton into the wind?"  
When she and I were in the Maritimes and on the Cabot Trail, while I was 
climbing over walks and enjoying the views and scheming ways to get down to the 
sea to wade ... she was picking up cones to bring home.
When she got them home to BC, she put them in pots and left them in mom's 
garage, where they were watered sporadically (when she visited) and sat for 
over 2 years, sort of forgotten, until, one day, 2 of them sprouted. 

Those little trees are now planted on her Mudge property and fenced to keep 
them from being deer fodder.  I love to visit them, because they remind me of 
one of our most fun trips with mom.  (and they are very pretty 4 foot high 
balls of green)
Anyway, I digress.
As we were visiting all those gardens, and she was lovingly stroking the trees, 
I started teasing her and calling her my "woodland" nymph.  
A few days later I woke up with the following idea.
It is the first day of the school year, and at the "nymph academy" those nymphs 
going into 4th year must declare their major.

The scene is the dean's office, where each hopeful is to be interviewed.  
Those nymphs who have done well in their studies get to be whatever they 
want.  They most often choose to be woodland or meadow nymphs and there is 
fierce competition for those limited spots.  Those who are C+ students are 
able to be sea shore nymphs (because they can call on the help of mermaids etc. 
if they get into trouble).  Those who are less academically inclined are 
consigned to be bog, swamp or desert nymphs.  

They all, of course, are motivated by different things.  Some just like the 
outfit ("there is something about shell breast plates that has always seemed 
most appropriate for my body type"), others commune with wild creatures, the 
introverts just like all the quiet places they can hang out without having to 
see anyone.     
This is where I started and I just thought it was an amusing idea (and had a 
great time during walks, devising appropriate costumes for each type ... bull 
kelp skirts, daisy crowns, bolero jackets made of "old man's beard")
Then this character arrived in my head for her interview.  
Her long, flowing hair (a requirement for nymphs ... in fact, without the hair, 
you don't even get accepted into the academy) is rolled up into a bun and held 
in place with a bunch of sharp pencils.

She declares that she wants to be a library nymph.  
Consternation.  The powers have never heard of anything like this.  There 
isn't a curriculum,  isn't that treading into elf territory?  There isn't an 
outfit!
In response she pulls out a series of those old library envelopes the ones that 
used to hold 2 cards .. one of which was retained by the library when you took 
out the book and one which you kept and had the date it needed to be returned 
on it. 

I don't know where this will go, but it seems to have legs.  
We shall see.

