
my response to the pictures sent to me by a pen pal .. who is having WAY too 
much fun at work.  He's an IT guy BTW.

TREKIE BUSTERS

Are you harbouring Trekie wannabe’s at work?

You are an up and coming executive or a person firmly placed in the middle 
management of a large and successful company.

Are you aware that literally thousands of work hours are lost annually to 
“Trekiens” who lurk in every workforce?

Trekien happenings have been proven to lose more “person hours” than 
hanging around the water cooler, emailing one’s friend, or photocopying and 
then faxing pictures of co-workers bare backsides to friends around the office, 
combined.

This is a trend that needs to be stamped out at all costs and our “Bust the 
Trekie” 5 day, all inclusive, extensive and hands on workshop is a must for 
all those aspiring to work in the upper eschelons of their prospective 
businesses.

For a mere $17,00.00 you can learn to SPOT THE TREKIE and devise ways to weed 
out and extinguish this virulent and unpleasant company disease.

A detailed description of the course follows:


Day One

Using the method of Cyrus Swiglin Jenissicus, phychiatrist and fashion 
designer, the course aims to help the executive by first placing her/him in the 
context of the offense and exhibiting the insidious nature of Trekism with a 
closely supervised immersion into the genre.  The morning of day one will 
consist of an over all explanation of the many Star Trek series and movies.  A 
time line will be presented and participants will be required to recall 
essential “trekian” facts such as “What was the outcome of the Battle of 
Cheron?” “To what genus do Tribbles belong?” “Who is the most famous 
son of LaBarre, France?” and “Whose parents were killed in the Khitomer 
attack?”

The afternoon of day one will focus on learning essentials, such as how to 
perform the Vulcan mind meld, the mechanics of shape shifting, and the design 
and construction of an engine powered by dilithium crystals.

Participants need not be worried that such exposure will become addicting.  
Qualified facilitators are on hand to supply participants with Trekie 
deterrents, such as corporation mission statements, expense account forms, job 
queues and wet towels and a copy of “Assessing the Teen Market; Innovative 
Leaders Managing In The Digital Age” will be distributed to each participant 
as a “fail safe” homework assignment.

Day Two

Day Two will be devoted to placing the “Trekien” world in its historical 
and cultural context. A detailed exploration of how Captains James T. Kirk, 
Jean-Luc Picard, Jonathan Archer, and Benjamin Lafayette Sisko, cost their 
employers millions of credits by going off and exploring strange new worlds and 
seeking out new life, and new civilizations instead of creating viable business 
plans and bringing capitalism to the emerging market of recently discovered 
planets.

A case by case study will be presented of the incredible fortunes lost to both 
the fictional world of “Star Trek” and the current world of business by 
those who strive to emulate their favourite character role models.

Day Three

Getting into the meat of the matter, the participant will be instructed on how 
to identify the warning signs of Trekie immersion at the very earliest stages.

Do your workers arrive late, and with black circles under their eyes, often 
sporting suspicious t-shirts with 1960’s colour schemes?

Do they flaunt an unusual upside down “U” shaped icon on their chests?

Do they respond to commands from superiors with “aye, aye, Captain” or 
respond “acknowledged” to a request for more coffee during a strategizing 
sales session?

Do they return from coffee breaks with the dazed look of one who has seen a 
different world?

These are just a few of the troubling first signs that Trekism is 
surreptitiously taking over your workforce.

Day Four

Having been exposed to the enormity of the problem, the participant will be 
instructed in ways to perform a “Trekie Intervention” without jeopardizing 
the efficiency or lessening the workload of the affected employee.

Discussion of the best wording of the “No Trekie Activities at Work” rule 
and the appropriate enforcement, start the day.

Participants will be able to look at the structure of their specific 
organization, and assess ways to establish a “whistle blower” line so that 
employees may inform on each other.  

Appropriate bonus standards for such whistle blowers will be set.

An outline of a company mandated “trekie anonymous” group for repeat 
offenders will be presented.

Proper administration of public flogging will be demonstrated. 

Day Five

To end on a positive note, this day focuses on the joys of living in a 
“Trekie Free” environment for both company and employee.

Previous “Trekie Deprogrammers” will illustrate, with copious numbers of 
riveting graphs and charts, the advantages of stopping employees from enjoying 
themselves on the job.

Former Trekie Junkies will give testimonials as to how their lives have 
improved now that they no longer crave to engage in frolicsome and creative 
sessions with their co-workers and how they now prefer to spend all their work 
time fixedly dealing with number crunching and writing up letters which begin 
“as per our conversation”.

Rehabilitation strategies will be discussed, including the effective treatment 
used by one company which involved rooms with no windows or air conditioning, 
limited use of bathroom facilities and restricting all foodstuffs to bread and 
water.



Number of participants is severely limited so be sure to register early and 
avoid disappointment.   Trekie Buster Workshops have been consistently filled 
within hours of opening.  Professionals from all forward thinking corporate 
spheres have found our sessions worthwhile and remember, your workshop costs 
may be written off on yearly tax assessments.

Trekie Busters – for today and into the next century.
6 Attachments

