Sunday:

As you know, I have a friend called Jen, who has a tendency to depression.  
This trend gets quite bad at certain times of the year, such as Valentines Day.

I am, for about 3 weeks before the dreaded event, barraged with phone calls and 
emails which say “WHY don’t I have a partner?”, “YOUR life is so good 
and mine is so terrible”, “I am so lonely and want a boyfriend.”

Jen watches a LOT of TV and, in her mind’s eye, every event should be exactly 
like it is on the commercials.  Telling her that G and I don’t do Valentines 
Day just doesn’t compute for her.  She KNOWS that G (looking younger and 
fitter and rather like a model from a sweater magazine) runs into the house 
every Valentine’s Day with at least a dozen perfect red roses for me which 
have, attached to them, a small box which contains an exquisite diamond.  He 
then whisks me away to a romantic, candle lit dinner where we exchange witty 
banter and then go home to make torrid love into the early hours of the morning.

It doesn’t matter what I tell her; that’s what she KNOWS we do.

I’ve never been fond of Valentine’s Day anyway, and now I’ve come to 
quite dread it, as I have to field her phone calls for weeks before the event.  

Deciding to be proactive this year, I decided that I would create an 
“occasion” with Jen, so we could go and do something different together, 
something fun, and “celebrate” the day without all the romantic 
expectations that are put on it.

Some woman I talked to downtown a week ago told me that there were pussy 
willows out on Ferry Island, so I invited Jen to go with me for a tramp around 
Ferry Island.   I thought we would gather pussy willows, then have a winter 
picnic there - offering to bring the food.

She balked at the picnic idea (“I have bad ears that shouldn’t get too 
cold”) so I suggested that I bring a thermos of tea to ward off the worst of 
the cold, then, after our walk and our pussy willow gathering, I would take her 
out to lunch.

Agreed.

So, I proposed we meet at noon (Jen never wakes up until 11:30 and noon is sort 
of pushing it) - thinking we could go for an hour’s walk, then I could take 
her out for lunch and then get home for an afternoon and evening with my guys.

I went out and bought a clear glass vase and some pink ribbon, so that I could 
arrange the pussy willows into a festive arrangement, and was ready to try and 
“re-align” the day with Jen.

Valentine’s Day was on Saturday this year.  

I went to the gym in the morning, and at 12:30 was amazed that I hadn’t heard 
from Jen (I usually tell her to call me when she gets up).  I started calling 
her then, and called every half hour from then until she finally called me at 
4:30 that afternoon.  She had slept until 4:00, because she had been depressed 
the night before and had stayed up watching horror films until about 6:00 a.m.

Remembering my first resolution for the year (be kinder to people) - I did my 
best to NOT be irritated and merely suggested that we do it on Sunday.

But, I told her, I wasn’t going to wait around all day again.  I expected to 
be heading to Ferry Island at noon.

Noon is was, she assured me, she would be ready.

Sunday at noon I was at her door and ringing her bell, and there was no answer. 
 I actually waited around about 15 minutes - ringing every few minutes - but 
got no response - so I headed to Ferry Island alone … thinking I would just 
cut the pussy willows myself and deliver them to her afterwards.

The temperature was -11 C but the net said that, with wind chill, it was -23C.  
I parked at the lot and headed out onto the paths.  

We don’t have any snow left on the roads or sidewalks but there is still 
plenty of snow around. The island was one large sheet of bumpy ice and I was 
happy to have my traxs on - as I would have fallen many times without them.  

I headed out along the path with the carved heads in the trees - I haven’t 
been on that path for a few years and it was nice to see it again.  I had 
forgotten, however, that that path is RIGHT next to the river, so the wind just 
sweeps along the river and buffets you unmercifully.  By the time I was about 
20 minutes along the trail I realized that it was just TOO cold for my nose and 
cheeks - I couldn’t feel them anymore - so I decided to cut inland and take a 
short cut back to the car.  

I got lost.

HOW you get lost on an island as small as ferry island I have no idea.  I mean, 
you can’t REALLY get lost - at some point you hit the river on one of the 
sides and you follow it back up to the parking lot.

I had intended, by heading inland, to meet up with the service road that runs 
along the island, and follow it back to the parking lot.  I have NO idea how I 
missed the road (I must have been going south east when I thought I was going 
east - I sometimes forget how southerly the sun is at this point of the year).  
Anyway, after fighting my way through the forest, climbing over a plethora of 
fallen logs, and skirting those icy areas that looked as if they were filled 
with water underneath and I might break through, I managed to come up against 
the river on the OTHER side of the island.  Then I just had to follow the river 
back to the parking lot.  This wasn’t as bad as the wind was at my back and I 
wasn’t as cold.

Still, I managed to walk for 2 hours instead of my planned one, and I was cold.

I realized that the woman who had told me about the pussy willows MUST have 
been on drugs.  There wasn’t a hint of anything budding or opening up.  We 
are still firmly in the grasp of winter.

When I got home I was just thawing out and I got a call from Jen - who had 
overslept again.  She was sorry and would I come over and fix her computer 
chair that wasn’t working properly. 

I’m afraid I was a bit curt with her and declined.

Yesterday I got a call from her telling me that I had hurt her feelings and 
that I was being unfair.  As she usually is completely non-assertive, I felt 
that it was great that she was feeling confident enough to tell me this … and 
I went down to her place and looked at her computer chair.  (I fixed it as much 
as possible, as she has bent some metal and once bent it will never be as 
strong again.  I can’t believe that she hadn’t actually turned it over and 
looked at what the problem was …. I think I’m going to have to give her 
some elementary lessons on simple home mechanics and repairs.)

So THAT is why I didn’t write on the weekend - and that is why I’m sitting 
here at the moment not knowing if I am a bitchy and mean friend or a dish rag.  
I am supposed to take her out for coffee today, and, she is hinting, lunch.  To 
make up for the weekend.

I’m trying REALLY hard to think positively about the whole thing, but I think 
I’m a bit resentful.  So much for the resolution.

But I’m working on it, I really am!!!

k
