Dear Kris:

Gird your loins, pour yourself a stiff drink and prepare to be besieged with 
yet more whining from this side of the province.

Some days not much goes well, you know.

After a month or more of being locked in mortal combat with this cold, I feel 
as if I am slowly coming out the victor. I’m like one of those Hemmingway 
characters (Old Man and the Sea?) who remember when they arm wrestled for 3 
days, never letting up for a minute. But slowly….slowly I can feel my 
opponent losing its grip and I know, if I just remain strong, I will be the one 
left standing at the finish.

My house is steeped in the smell of hot water, lemon juice and grated ginger in 
various stages of preparation, on which I seem to be living. But I no longer 
have more than 2 coughing sessions a night and I can take a deep breath without 
being aware of every square inch of my lungs so things are looking up.

We have had a session of the worst kind of weather. On Thursday afternoon 
charming, fluffy snow began to fall and by the evening we had about 10 – 12 
inches. Of the white, feathery, light variety. It was delightful.

When I woke up the next morning, however, I heard small clicks on my skylight 
and knew that our exquisite snow was being pummeled by freezing rain. Sure 
enough, the snow now had a sleek hard crust on it, and getting into a vehicle 
required something very close to a hammer and chisel as everything was covered 
in ice.

Later on that day the freezing rain turned to rain, and so we had water, on 
ice, on snow .. not a good or a safe combo.

Saturday morning, to add insult to injury, a new layer of snow had fallen .. so 
we are talking slippery.

I was up early Saturday morning to bake shortbread for Sunday’s NWS concert. 
Between batches I had about 15 minutes waiting time, and some mad impulse lead 
me to go outside and try to clear at least the walking paths off our deck. As I 
was sliding precariously along the layers of ice, snow and water I thought 
briefly of putting on my trax (attachments that add metal spikes to one’s 
shoes so you don’t fall) but decided I didn’t have time.

And, of course I slid and fell and seem to have twisted my knee.

The air was filled with graphic words and anger at the universe, and I almost 
burnt a whole cookie sheet of shortbread whilst wallowing in the process of 
saying bad things.

Ice (on my knee), coffee (in my belly), and self pity (all over) followed and 
Dr. Karla then decided that what she needed to do was walk the thing out. So, 
after the shortbread, ARMED (or rather shod) with trax, K set out for the gym 
(about 2 k away), and did an hour workout then walked home.

By the time I was home the knee was in some distress. Working last night - the 
last night of the high school musical - with all the running up and down stairs 
didn’t help. Usually I don’t notice the number of times I climb UP the two 
sets of stairs to the upper lobby and then DOWN the stairs into the raked 
theatre, but last night I resented EVERY trip, and there were LOTS of them, 
believe me.

I am a bit put out, as we strike the musical this morning (including putting 
the heavy sections of the pit back in - a hard and heavy job at the best of 
times), I set up for the NWS concert this afternoon (which includes hauling 
choral risers into and out of vehicles, setting lighting trees and climbing 
ladders to hang instruments) and we perform this evening. I don’t know how 
the knee will hold out, especially, as one stands a long time at a choir 
concert.
I am taking solace in the fact that at least I can wear a tensor bandage under 
the outfit.

Hell, I can wear a Tiny Tim BRACE under the outfit.

Last summer, I turned in my very nice size M outfit to be cleaned. This fall I 
received an outfit back that said XL. After some skillful negotiating I was 
able to find an outfit that is a L – but I have to affix a great many pins in 
strategic places so I don’t look as if I am wearing a dyed potato sack. If I 
wear that outfit for the performance I can fit a bandage, a brace and probably 
a few thin patrons under my skirts without anyone knowing.

I am contemplating showing up at the strike and to rehearsal armed with a cane. 
I probably don’t really NEED it, but maybe I can play the demure, helpless 
one, and, instead of hauling heavy equipment and pit covers around, stand in 
everyone’s way and attractively wring my hands and make feeble attempts to 
carry the light stuff.

Of course, that will make the strike last even longer than the eternity it 
usually takes.

And, to make matters worse … my hair has decided to take Medusa as its role 
model for today. One can’t play the decorous and retiring femme fatale with 
Medusa hair.

I find that living with my hair is rather like living with a hormonal teenager. 
One never quite knows what it’s mood will be at any given time, but the 
continuum seems to only extend from “lion’s mane” on good days to 
“Medusa” on bad. Perhaps I’ll give it a stern talking to and threaten it 
with a razor cut. That might make it behave for a while, though I’ve always 
favored gentle guidance over fear. Still …..

Must run and get ready for the strike. It’s always interesting to see which 
kids straggle in to help and to hear the stories of the after party. Thanks for 
letting me vent .

k




J

