And a very good evening it is too ... good to be sitting indoors and 
listening to the raging wind outside.  I have no idea why I shoveled today .. 
I didn't really need to go anywhere, and I'll have to re-do it tomorrow ... 
there is at least 2 feet of blown snow on the front walk way.  There is a mini 
blizzard happening at the moment, snow blowing in all directions .. it makes 
the light from the street lights very pretty indeed, as you see the flakes 
flying in all directions.
Ah well, that's for tomorrow.
If you have been lurking about on the FB page you'll know that I got my witches 
finished.  You may not know that I'm mounting my play (Wicked Women and One 
Lone Wolf) this spring but my Macbeth witches dialogue wasn't ready.  I had 
written two drafts but neither were good enough to be called finished and then, 
when I made another attempt recently, the ladies picked up their skirts and 
walked off stage.  They were resolute that they were not coming back.
If there is one thing I can count on, it is my imaginative brain.   It 
understands deadlines better than I do.  There I was, fussing about not being 
able to write, and worrying that I would be casting three women who would not 
have a completed script,  when suddenly my witches made their entrance, agreed 
to start the writing process once again but told me in no uncertain terms that 
they were NOT going to play cards; they wanted to cook.

I had considered them cooking before (after all in the Scottish play they 
recite recipes) , but just couldn't face the idea of all those messy props .. 
veggies and cutting boards, and knives, and bowls, etc. and had steered them 
towards playing Old Maid or Snap.  But the ladies were sure that they needed 
food, so food they got.
I often think of my imagination as a large, untrained, rude and very curious 
dog.  It goes towards whatever snags its interest and no amount of yelling or 
leash pulling will distract it.  I would say it was a cat, but cats are too 
cool and canny; my imagination is positively drooling with excitement at times, 
and leaves terrible messes in its wake.  
And it cannot be controlled.  The wyrd sisters just would NOT sit down at a 
card table.  They wandered around the stage, they sneered dismissively at the 
beautiful pack of cards I offered them.  They merely lifted their lips with 
disdain when I meekly suggested swapping a regular deck with a tarot deck.  
They are a tough bunch.
When I reluctantly let Ethel start a salad the words came tumbling out, and I 
could picture the three of them, wandering about on stage, the older two 
witches getting in Ethel's way, snagging bits to taste, having a nice little 
natter while she did all the work (just like in the old days of the Scottish 
play)  
When Ethel started chopping up bits of snake steaks to put into the salad (oh 
please can we make plasticine snakes says my Stage Manager brain) because as an 
apprentice witch she always had to fillet the damn things, the ladies got very 
comfortable and tossed lines back and forth with abandon.  They even fell into 
a nice rhythm of speaking to each other then turning to include the audience.

I think it is done!  And that's my last revision until after the the play is 
presented.  After the run I may have to tweak bits that just scream out at me.

Sometimes I have this stupid worry.  I think to myself .. what if I walk into 
an imagination forest and get lost?  I may never come out again.  
I know this is a really stupid conceit, but sometimes I scare myself just a 
little bit.

Anyway, I'm cold sitting at this computer, I'm going to take my book and curl 
up under a bunch of covers .. it is WAAAYYYY too cold out there. 
