First Day in India

October 13 and 14

There was a time, I believe, when travel was slow and stately.  When people 
travelled long distances they moved sedately on trains and ocean liners.  The 
jet set age has changed all that and I must admit that during the long flights 
I was wishing for a mode of travel that let one get up and stretch.

Air China hostesses are little and pretty but rule the plane with an iron 
hand.  They were very harsh with those of us who wanted to stand up and move 
during the eleven hour flight to Beijing. And they had definite ideas about 
when and if you could get a drink of water.

Getting to India took more than twenty four hours (eleven hours to Beijing, a 
four hour layover, six hour flight to Delhi, and security on both sides as well 
as customs).  Fortunately I had lovely seat mates on both legs of the journey, 
first a south Indian man with excellent English and a wicked sense of humor who 
kept me laughing then an indo Canadian man from Delhi returning home to see his 
mother.

Nevertheless, by the time I stumbled out of the arrivals in Delhi (82 degrees 
in the middle of the night) I was exhausted and frazzled.  It was marvelous to 
see  my name on a sign the moment I walked through the doors.

Soni and Ashish (family members of my pen pal, Deepak, who had arranged my stay 
with them) picked me up in the early hours of the morning and whisked me away 
to their lovely little condo,  where I was put to bed in a beautiful, air 
conditioned room.  The glory of being able to stretch out!

This morning, two women arrived at the apartment.  As Soni and I talked, one 
quickly and efficiently cleaned, and the other prepared a curried pumpkin dish 
and curried potato dish as well as deep fried roti for breakfast.

We had planned to go to the market today but after the morning had worn off I 
was suddenly exhausted and napped ...in preparation for the evening.

My hosts are delightful and very gracious, they make me feel like a princess at 
all times. They are very quick to help me understand things about their society 
and religion.  I feel that I have learned more from them in our day together 
than from all the guide books I've been hauling around all summer.

In the afternoon we took an express metro into Delhi and walked along some 
street markets.  We came to the main temple of the monkey God.  They had 
warned me that we would not be able to visit because it would be packed, but 
the crowds were less than they expected so we went in.  Leaving our shoes with 
an older woman at the entrance we had water poured over our hands, went through 
ringing bells to hand in sweets (offering sweets to the gods) which were then 
returned, and had a Bindi put on our foreheads.   There was a main statute of 
the god and other gods as well, such as the ox which brings your wishes to 
Shiva.  I didn't understand it all but it was exciting and busy.

We then went to a large outdoor concert where we heard a sitar player 
(accompanied by two drummers) and then heard sufi music, sung by a woman with a 
truly magical voice.  Though the concert was not over we decided to return 
home as Mishika, Soni and Ashish's daughter had been alone all day, since she 
returned from school.

Another wonderful meal and much conversation.  I cannot get over how 
comfortable and welcomed I feel.  This has been a wonderful introduction to 
India. 
