10 Happy Diwali
Oct 23
Happy Diwali
We are dropping like flies here on the tour. Out of the twelve of us six have 
been bothered by intestinal troubles, and not just bothered, out for a day at 
least. At first every one thought it was the water, but all the symptoms are 
the same and they come on at different times so I am suspecting it is a bug of 
some kind, working it's way through the company. We have been eating together 
so it can't be the food, it is too selective.
Our plan was to go to the temples this morning but we had to wait for the 
doctor to come to see people. My room mate Chris is one who was stricken. The 
doctor obviously feels uncomfortable coming into the room but I figure if you 
make a house call you don't meet your patient the lobby so I took him to our 
room and stayed so I could chaperone. He has an old brief case which he uses as 
a black bag. He prescribed the same things for all the sick people and Mithun 
was kept busy running back and forth to the pharmacy. You don't need a 
prescription for the things he gave everyone and I'm thinking I'll go get some 
for myself so I have them when my turn comes.
The doctor seems sure that all of us are developing symptoms because we are not 
used to spicy food, (if so, I'm safe) but it looks like something bacterial to 
me.
When we were finally finished the doctor business it was too hot to go to the 
temples and instead we ventured out to do a bit of shopping. I had, apparently, 
promised every shopkeeper in the town that I would come to his place and the 
excitement of Diwali made it even more important. I am a poor shopper, 
especially when I'm being pressured; I am bringing very few things home (though 
I now sort of regret not picking up the kama sutra cards for Sarah).
The bus driver (though really, we didn't need a bus, we could have easily 
walked) is a Jain and asked us if we wanted to see the Jain temples, which are 
known as the eastern temples. Well really, you can shop anywhere, it was 
obvious. It was great going through the temples with him, as he could not only 
talk about the carvings but also spoke about the Jain religion. He was 
obviously quite devout (this seems to be a country of devout people) but still 
doesn't practice many of the things his religion preaches.  
The carvings themselves were a sight to see, the complexity of the work, the 
attention to detail, and the portrayal of the body with even things like the 
fold a straightened knee visible. The Jains preach mastering the senses so each 
carving of a person doing something fun (adorning oneself, kissing, eating, 
bathing etc.) Is countered by a monster which has its foot on one human and is 
wrestling with another. The human under foot has given way to his human 
cravings, the other is fighting with the demon.
In the Jain temples we got to ask a lot of questions (though I'm not sure I 
understood the answers) and take time to really look at the structure of the 
place, I felt more ready to see the main temples later that day.
We walked home through the market and that was rather fun. It seems I also 
promised each and every person there that I would come again. I'm sorry we 
didn't have more time, I would have liked to stroll through the crowds and 
look. I love the piles of henna every where, the vibrancy of the colors stand 
out even here where everything is colorful.
The tour was scheduled to have lunch at the home of an Indian family. A very 
nice gentleman met us and we walked to his home. He must be rather affluent as 
he has a large place. We sat in his living/bedroom (which was very purple and 
had beautifully carved furniture) and were welcomed. We had pakoras as an 
appetizer, and almost everyone took a turn at making one in the kitchen. I 
didn't bother as Mrs. Rani often makes them. The meal was pretty typical of a 
lunch for guests ..Dahl, vegetables, rice, purries, 
mango pickle, and parrotas, but not very hot when it comes to spices. Still it 
was a delicious lunch and the chai was fabulous. I am only sorry that we had to 
rush a bit. Indian hospitality is so gracious, and relaxed, it would have been 
so nice to relax with the family and talk. The family consisted of a couple and 
their four children as well as his mother (who makes coconut Indian fudge well 
but not as well as Mrs Rani.)
Finally it was time to see the western temples of Khajuraho. We were met by our 
guide and had an hour long tour of the place. I am so happy we had a guide, the 
numbers of sculptures are daunting, you could spent a lifetime studying them. 
Though they are known as the kama sutra sculptures, only five percent of the 
carvings are so related. There are depictions of war, of the courts, of the 
class system, the gods and flora and fauna. The most interesting aspect of the 
temples is their planning. It is called mountain range architecture. If you 
stand to the side, you see a bunch of domes, each larger than the next. If you 
stand in front each dome looks like a mountain slightly higher than the one in 
front of it. The intricacies have to be seen, you really can't describe it. 
There are various temples in the complex and you wander through well kept 
grounds from one to another. When they were built the grounds would have been 
farmlands. It is a beautiful sight.
After the tour we had about two hours to explore the place on our own. I 
decided to concentrate on two temples rather than get through all of them. I 
chose the biggest and most elaborate and the temple to Shiva as I hadn't seen a 
Shiva temple before.
Whereas cathedrals are beautiful outside, they save the big impact for the 
interior. Here it is the opposite. The outside is amazing, but the insides are 
dark and small, so you don't get to admire, only worship.
At the Shiva temple there was a group of twelve Indian men sitting on the steps 
and taking turns getting shots of the group. When I asked if they would like me 
to take a picture of all of them they were thrilled. I ended up taking pictures 
with all twelve cameras and then each of the men asked me to pose with them. I 
think I'm going to be on a lot of Facebook pages. That opened the flood gates, 
I posed with a south Indian family, (five girls and they all loved my hair, we 
exchanged hair horror stories), a couple from Delhi (who thought I was 
traveling solo and were concerned for me), and two teens who had no idea who I 
was but had seen me posing with others so decided I was important (I think).
By the time I walked back to the hotel, two more of our group were stricken and 
the doctor had come again. So far I'm feeling fine, fingers crossed.
It was a small group of us who attended the sound and light show that evening. 
I had no idea of what to expect but it was back at the western temples and was 
really the story of the temples told via means of story theatre and lights. 
There is a narrator (the ghost of a carver) who narrates and as he speaks 
lights come up on various bits of the temples the landscape. It was a good way 
to learn the history of the place and the temples were beautiful at night. I 
found the production a bit kitsch but I'm not sure if I'm bringing the wrong 
sensibility to it. This is India, perhaps our understated north American style 
of drama wouldn't work here. Whatever the case, it was fantastic to sit in the 
cool of the night (still not even needing a sweater) and enjoy the evening.
We walked back to our hotel for dinner to find Mithun had purchased fireworks 
for our Diwali. In the courtyard of the hotel, along with four very excited 
hotel staff, we had great explosions. It was lots of fun to yell and applaud 
and see the boys try to be the one who got to ignite each one.
The night was warm and we sat in the courtyard with drinks and chatted. Let's 
hope everyone is better tomorrow.


