11 Decorated cows and peacock feathers
Oct 24
It looks as if our walking wounded are improving, no more cases have developed 
and everyone has shown some improvement.
After breakfast this morning Chris and I went in search of sunglasses and 
clothes and for the first time I used Bhavna's advice when it came to 
bargaining. I started at less than the quarter of the asking price and bought 
some clothes for a quarter of what was asked. I'm really not good at that stuff 
but it was fun this morning. I'm sure the merchants can see a sucker like me 
from blocks away. Still, I have a pair of funky harem pants and a new top.
We piled into cars again and started the four hour drive to Ochra. It was 
really quite fun. As we drove we made up silly new video games about India, and 
irritating postcards we could write to our friends. Thank the fates the roads 
were good, no more endless potholes.
One of the things we noticed were the cows decorated with spots all along the 
road, and the young men riding in the backs of trucks clutching bunches of 
peacock feathers.
When we got to our hotel we had a pleasant surprise, we are being housed in 
'deluxe tents' and they really are deluxe (except for the ever present hard 
beds), as well as being attached to a hotel with a pool. It took us about fifty 
seconds to find our suits and dive into the water. We've been going hard, an 
afternoon about the pool was what we needed.
At five we were met by a new guide who gave us an orientation walk about the 
city and took us to one of the temples.
While we were out and about we saw several groups of men dancing, holding 
peacock features high and smashing sticks onto the ground. It is the day after 
Diwali and this is a tradition. The cows are decorated as the cow symbolises 
the mother, who gives life, and is worshipped. The sticks are those used to 
herd the cows and the feathers represent Lord Rama. It is very exciting with 
various percussion instruments going all the time, a series of crescendos 
happen within the dance and then new dancers jump in and the dance continues.
We stopped at a restaurant to order food. We were heading to the temple so not 
allowed to take cameras or leather into the place. We ordered dinner, left our 
things in a locker at the restaurant and proceeded to the temple.
It is huge.
I don't know if it was because of the festival or not, but we walked into 
chaos. Leaving our shoes outside the temple we walked through icky water into 
the space. Which was packed. Young men with peacock feathers, tourists, 
devotees of all kinds, as well as families who were obviously gossiping and 
young men flaring their mustaches about. There isn't much order, people talk 
and come and go randomly.
We were so far back we had to watch the process on a tv screen and that was not 
set up well so we couldn't see much. I thought it was much like India, chaotic, 
fervent, macho, devout, diverse.
We were hoping to see the entire service, with the celebrants circling the 
idols etc. But it was such a crush and we were so far back we couldn't see 
anything. Young men kept coming in and standing in front of me and forcing me 
back. I was told to stand my ground but it was impossible. At one point I got 
to the front of a step and had a tiny view but almost immediately I was pushed 
back by three twenty something men. It was disappointing, it would have been 
nice to witness a Hindu ceremony.
I have to confess to being relieved to be back on the busy streets, after the 
crush of the temple they seemed tame.  
We returned to the restaurant to have dinner in the cool of the evening. We 
were sitting on a balcony overlooking the river which was nice, but a bit buggy 
and I've got welts this morning. Still, it was worth it.
I walked home through the streets seeing Diwali sweets. I would have loved to 
buy some but have been warned against street food and I've been well so far, 
still they did look tantalizing.

