12 The Hidden City

Oct 25 

This morning we were ready to tour the sights first thing, as stone buildings 
get hot in the heat of the day. We started our day with a decent walk through 
the temple complex we had visited the night before and to the palace of the 
Rudra Pratap, a Bundela Ajput ruler. It was built in the sixteenth century and 
then abandoned in the eighteenth century. 

Orchha is called the hidden city because it was hidden by the jungle. The 
Bundela rulers made alliances with the Mongols and therefore some of the 
architecture has Islamic influence. 

As you enter the city you drive through a series of very high arches, these 
were constructed not as defense but as a royal pathway, the arches being high 
enough for the king to pass through on an elephant and make a grand entrance. 
The palace complex was build by three successive kings and consists of an outer 
wall, over a kilometre in length, a receiving hall and living quarters. All are 
constructed using a series of arches and have rooms above and below ground to 
deal with the temperatures throughout the year. All the entrances have assigned 
elephant walk ways. 

The most interesting parts of the palace were the living quarters. One king had 
seven wives (seven days of the week) and the ladies' area was quite lovely. 
There are the remains of paintings in the royal chambers, and the ceilings were 
painted to mimic the Persian carpets which would have been spread the floor. 
There was a pool of water that was strewn with rose petals and a fan fixed over 
it which would have had a servant pull to create a draft, but most 
interestingly, they had a fountain, which worked by camel power. The ladies 
even had their own royal bathroom with one, two, or three seaters, or I guess 
that is squatters. 

We took some time climbing about the place. The ladies were placed behind 
grills so they could not be seen, and you really can see a whole lot from 
behind those screens. I walked the upper ladies area and tried to imagine what 
it would have been like to live in that complex. The stairs were steep, high 
and placed on dark tunnels for defensive reasons so you had to really want to 
climb them. 

Mithun told us it was only 29 degrees today but in the heat of the palace it 
seemed much hotter, I can't imagine living there in the summer. 

Our next stop was at a paper factory set up for local trial women. Being Diwali 
season it was a holiday but we saw the process by which these women cut up the 
leftovers from garment factories and made paper. 

Some people then went back to town to see another temple but I was too hot and 
went back to the hotel for a swim. 

Later in the day I visited the cenotaphs built by a series of kings to 
themselves. I almost gave it a miss, there are only so many old buildings with 
arches you can appreciate in one day. This was special. You enter the complex 
via a gate that lets you into a beautiful, formal garden in which five 
cenotaphs are set. Each of them has a commanding view of the river and on the 
roofs vultures sit. We climbed up to the second level in one building and got a 
beautiful view of both the river and the birds. Hundreds of parakeets seem to 
share the space with vultures, it was enchanting. 

In this town there seems to be a custom of having your picture taken with a 
tourist. I am constantly being handed babies to hold as their parents snap 
pictures of us both. Then the wife and girls in the party clump around me and 
we smile for the camera. I get introduced to everyone (the man of the group 
does the talking) and I tell them all how beautiful they are. When a man points 
to a woman and says 'my wife' I say 'look how lucky you are, you have the 
perfect wife, she is very pretty and I can see she is intelligent and kind. You 
are a lucky, lucky man' or some such thing. And the women giggle and talk 
amongst themselves. This happens at least three times a day. 

I decided not to attend the cooking class this evening; lovely and harmonious 
as this group is, we are together a lot of the time. I decided to slip down 
into town by myself and have a light dinner somewhere I could watch the street. 

It was not to be. My roommate met me as I was leaving and we walked down 
together. Chris is a very interesting woman, though, and having dinner with her 
was the next best thing to being alone. Of course later on, two others from our 
group came to the same restaurant so we all walked back together. 

I love the evenings here. Though it is dark early there is no dew so the nights 
are warm and comfortable. If I thought it was safe I would go for a long night 
time walk, perhaps along the river. But caution takes priority and a female 
tourist walking alone at night in a secluded area is not the best idea. Oh 
well. I contented myself with sitting on the promenade at our hotel and 
watching the river go by. 
