13 Getting lost and a Muslim meal
Oct 26
Indian men are very lucky. Young or old, thin or plump the women here are very 
attractive. Many of them are beautiful, and they have fantastic poise. Perhaps 
it is a firm core from squatting but their carriage is erect and they have a 
languid, loose way of moving their limbs that reminds you of the lanky grace of 
a teenage boy, sure the power of his body. They work hard too.
We got on the bus to Chanderi this morning and drove about three hours through 
the countryside. It was mainly a farming area and you constantly saw women in 
the fields. The men appear to plow and drive trucks, the women plant, harvest, 
weed, and pick rocks. The ratio of women to men in the fields was about five to 
one. The women also look after children, cook, gather wood, make bricks out of 
cow paddies, sweep, and paint houses. You rarely see a woman not busy, you 
often see men gathered in the shade of a tree. I'm thinking life is very hard 
for women here.
But the drive was wonderful. We went through a number of small villages which 
were fascinating and the country side is beautiful. The banyon and mango trees 
beautifully shaped in the fields, the country dry but still pretty and in some 
places lush.
Chanderi is a small town of 40,000 people. It is not a tourist town though it 
should be. Fourteen years ago our guide approached intrepid travel with the 
suggestion that their patrons would like to see a small village. Today they see 
about 25 tours a year but it has been enough to stimulate some local economic 
growth.
We had some time to relax before our planned day began and Chris and I decided 
to go out for a walk. The main road was noisy and boring so we took a side ride 
and discovered a beautiful town. Square brick covered streets, huge old 
fortifications, beautiful gardens and, in one street we saw a cow, a monkey, a 
goat and a pig all in the street together.
We got hopelessly lost. The streets seemed to radiate out from several centres 
and we could occasionally spot a tower that looked familiar but we couldn't get 
to it. We walked and walked and walked, discovering little gems on every 
street, but having no idea of where we were our how to find main street. 
Luckily Chris had our hotel key and by showing the name to many people we 
finally found our way back.
We had ten minutes to be ready for the orientation walk. Our guide took us to 
several of the places we had already seen ...a swimming area for 'royal ladies' 
build in the twelfth century, the first of a set of city walls, an old camel 
stable and traders bazaar area, several mosques. It was an extensive and 
interesting walk and lasted for over two hours.  
We then took another substantial walk to have dinner at our guide's house. It 
was a Muslim household and we had a family dinner. Less spicy than most other 
foods we have tried but very good. We sat out on the host's veranda (also his 
roof) and had an excellent meal in the dusk. The people here are less used to 
tourists and there is no shouting and waving from merchants, there are no 
beggars and our guide asked us not to give presents or money to the children as 
they didn't want to start a beggar culture, the streets are also cleaner and 
full of unexpected beauty. This has been a fantastic day.

