14 Temples and monkeys
Oct 27
What an amazing day this had been. We breakfasted early so we could leave by 
nine and visit the Jain temple situated in the hills about Chanderi. When we 
got there a morning service was going on and the faithful, in orange, were 
chanting, clapping and singing.
We saw a huge statue of a Jain prophet carved in the face of a mountain, dated 
about 2 BC. On either side of the statue were stairs going up the mountains to 
other caves. As we climbed them we passed groups of monkeys laying about eating 
fruits. At various places in the hillside there were caves with different Jain 
prophets and the occasional Hindu goddess. The view of the temples below and 
the columned fort across the valley (constructed for royal ladies to watch the 
sunset) were beautiful. We spent quite a bit of time climbing up and down and 
through the caves, trying to avoid the monkeys who apparently can steal your 
bags or your glasses.
From there we drove to a palace that was once seven stories tall and second 
tallest building in India in it's time. It was built in the fifteenth century 
by the sultan of Mulwa who had been approached by the local people. After years 
of drought and having no food and no work they asked him for help. He cancelled 
the construction of the another palace in his capital and employed thousands of 
workers to construct this building which has no rooms and has never been used. 
He never stayed there but it was a great make work project. The palace is now 
being used by a great number of wasps so we didn't stay too long.
Into the jeeps and through fantastic landscape , on very dismal roads. We went 
through a village that specializes in quarrying sandstone. They cut the stone 
by drilling holes in the rock then putting dry sticks in the holes. They then 
pour water on the wood and, as it expands, it cracks the stone into squares.
The road was rough. So rough that at one point we had to get out and walk 
across a bridge then let the jeeps come over on their own. We went on past 
several little villages waving at the children who seemed to love to see us, 
and came to a river (unknown name) yet another holy river. We walked down to 
the stony edge and while our drivers made smoky chai for us (building a fire in 
the rocks and boiling milk then making smoke to flavor the milk) we climbed 
down to see some old rock paintings dating from the Neolithic period. While 
there we spied a fresh water crocodile. We came back to enjoy the chai and the 
view.
The day before, in the market I had picked up a beedie because they are so 
prevalent in all the India novels you read. I decided that I would try it with 
my chai so took it out of my bag and went to light it. Immediately one of the 
drivers took out his pack and offered me a fresh one ... so I took it. He lit 
it for me. The smell of tobacco and marijuana filled the air. I went to put it 
out but, 'give me your camera, I need to take a picture' came at me from my 
tour buddies, along with, 'keep sucking on it, you can't let it go out'. By the 
time Mithun came up from the rock paintings I had put it out and was sitting 
innocently. However the driver was excited that there was another smoker in the 
group and kept offering me more beedies throughout the day.
Back in the jeeps, back along the terrible roads and to the museum in Chanderi. 
Two floors of prehistoric tools and beautiful carvings from the many classic 
and old buildings about town.
Finally we got into the jeeps again and drove along a river to arrive at an old 
place with multiple columns and beautiful tropical plants encroaching on all 
sides. It felt as if Indiana Jones should jump out of some arch or statute at 
any moment. This had been a sultan's hunting lodge and our guide had arranged a 
luncheon for us. We climbed to the second floor through the arches and 
overlooking the river. The drivers put beautiful blankets on the stone and 
brought out a bengalese meal. It was a lovely way to finish our time in 
Chanderi. We ate and climbed the outer stairways to higher and higher terraces, 
and enjoyed the river view.
Though the day was hot, the breeze from the river was cooling, we could have 
stayed all day, but we had a train to catch so it was back to the hotel to pick 
up our things and back into the jeeps and on the road.  
The trip to the train station was gruesome. The roads are terrible and we were 
making up time so were bouncing about for an hour and a half; we all have sore 
necks from the jarring. Once on the platform it was bedlam. Again Mithun had us 
place our baggage in a pile and circle it with our bodies. Again the train was 
late and we stood in the heat for almost two hours. We watched people getting 
off the train with bundles of wheat or rice or wood which they carried on their 
heads. We watched a cow amble down the track and not get hit. 
Once the train arrived it was chaos. We were at a little station and it didn't 
stay long. Clutching our cases we made a beeline for our coach and discovered 
others in our seats. It took almost half a hour to sort it out, but the day 
train is much more comfortable than the night train. Presently I am sitting 
with two Indian men. They don't speak English but one of them was happy to eat 
my train supplied sandwich (the fomod on the train is called 'meals on wheels') 
and we are off to Agra. What a treat Chanderi has been!

