15 The Taj
Oct 28
It is so strange that all the times I thought about going to India, the Taj 
Mahal was never on my radar. I knew we would be going to Agra but somehow the 
Taj didn't stick in my brain.
This morning, however, I got up at an indecent time to see the fabled sunrise 
on the mausoleum. There were five of us in the little car and we made our way 
across the river to get a good view with the morning light.
Due to increased pollution the Taj is not as white as it once was and gas 
powered vehicles are no longer allowed near the site. However, the pollution in 
the air is pretty bad and the sunrise, when it came, did not reflect off the 
building to any degree. Instead the pollution and mist made everything smoky 
and ghost like which was still a magnificent sight, as the building slowly 
revealed itself in the light of the morning. 
After we had watched the Taj come into view we stopped for some chai 'you take 
picture of me, lady, I famous all the world round. People come and take my 
picture' said the little man on the corner as I bought some masala chai to 
enjoy. I dutifully took his picture and he was happy to see himself on my 
screen.
We returned to the hotel to pick up the rest of the people and went to the red 
fort. Built by the moguls, the fort is massive. I particularly like the fact 
that it had two moats in its day. The first was filled with water and 
crocodiles, the second with Bengal tigers. The is no water in the moat any more 
and no animals but it must have been exciting in its day. Add to this the long 
slope made to throw burning rounds of hay down, and the stone spouts to 
dispense hot oil and boiling water and you have a pretty impressive defendable 
place.
The fort also housed the harem of the sultan, in some cases four hundred ladies 
strong so it had beautiful living quarters, a pool which dispersed good smells 
and which had female musicians to play all day, a dance court just to watch 
dancers and other wonderful things. The wealth must have been astounding.
Some of us had decided to rent saris for our trip to the Taj. It sounded rather 
romantic and it also supports some women running a local business. We were 
loaded into a car and taken to a little area with tiny shops, then lead down 
smaller and smaller lanes which smelled bad, until we came to a minute place 
with two tiny rooms.
We got to choose our saris and started the laborious process of getting them 
on. As one young girl was trying to fasten a much too small blouse over my 
breasts and not getting it to close we were all giggling uncontrollably. 
Finally we were ready, bindis on, as well as bangles. We were joined by those 
who hadn't dressed up and headed out to the Taj.
Holy! I knew it would be busy but I hadn't expected a crowd like that. The idea 
of a romantic stroll in a sari went out the window, fast. The were so many 
people that you could not see the perfect shape of the arches which frame the 
building, or walk slowly through the gardens.
But we were still lucky. Our tickets were 'preferred' tickets so we did not 
have to stand in the very long queues to get into the building. But once inside 
it is a mad house. There actually isn't much to see inside, the beauty is on 
the outside.
 The Taj is built so the pillars always seem straight, don't curve in with 
perspective which means they actually lean out. The script on the building 
looks the same size, which means it is made larger as it goes up. There are 
many mathematical wonders about the place.
It took us about an hour to make the circuit inside the building and along the 
balconies. Being westerners dressed up in saris we were even more the object of 
attention. I have had my picture then with at least 100 people today. Much 
laughing and hugging with the women, who also seem to love my hair, it gets 
patted constantly.
We were at the Taj until it closed. Even filled with people and busy it is 
magnificent. Sometimes such things disappoint but this one is so much more 
beautiful than I had expected, it deserves its ranking as a world wonder.
We returned to our hotel to change then went out for a farewell dinner. Part of 
the tour ends today and we are splitting up. Five are going home tomorrow, 
three are heading south and four of us are off to Rajasthan.
On our trip to a new hotel, to meet our new group we saw two camels walking 
down the street ridden by two old and very stately men. I love how India always 
surprises, no matter what the time and the place.

