16 A Night in a Castle
Oct 29
The four of us still on the tour are starting a new game. We will be meeting 
each night to vote someone off the island, a sort of personal game of survivor.
Our new tour guide, Anil, seems more organized and has better English than 
Mithun, but he doesn't have much of a personality. Or it may show itself in the 
future but right now he's rather flat.
Of course it didn't help that we had a seven o'clock start this morning to 
catch a local bus. Four hours on the bus, not having the opportunity to 
interact with our new group and then an hour jeep ride (read terrible roads) to 
Madhogarh. Note to self, tell every woman going to India BRING A GOOD BRA!
On our way we saw many carts pulled by camels. I'm beginning to love camels, 
they look like incomplete Disney figures.
Madhogarh is a tiny town which is only visited by intrepid. As part of their 
responsible tourism mandate they looked for a small place with interesting 
sights so they could show their patrons how rural people lived. We are staying 
in an old castle. Each of the rooms are different and it is quite magnificent. 
I was wowed by our room until I saw some of the others; Chris and I have 
obviously been pegged as peasants. But the courtyards and views are amazing. We 
have spent the first few hours here just lounging. We will have a tour later in 
the day but it has been nice to get to know our fellow travelers. I already 
have my candidate for first off the island, though most of the others seem very 
nice.
I spent the early part of the afternoon sitting on the roof of the castle 
looking at the view. I was going to read but was soon joined by some of the 
other guests. Very pleasant people.
We met at four to have a 'tour' of the village but it was just a walk. Still 
the children gather round wanting you to take their picture and Celia, who was 
once a primary music teacher, organized a round of the hokey pokey which went 
over really well. I had a great time with the old men who would pose for their 
picture, demand to see it and then pose again.  
We were to have returned to the castle (doesn't that sound grand) by sunset but 
there were too many demands on our cameras and we were late. Still we gathered 
on the roof of the castle in comfortable chairs and had a drink. We were 
introduced to the owner of the castle who is also like a mayor of the town and 
we asked him questions about the area.
His father was the equivalent of a king and so he got the property. He assured 
us that his sisters didn't want it, and that things were good now because if 
you didn't have a son your daughter's son could inherit. Honestly sometimes I 
think they don't understand my questions.
We sat for a time and then moved on to dinner. It was at the castle, in the 
courtyard and very nice. Handsome young men were serving and it was 
companionable. The only thing is, the electricity kept going off. At first it 
we fun as we were sitting in the courtyard anyway and got to watch the stars, 
but navigating these many stairs and the uneven patios the dark is challenging. 
There isn't much to do here but I wouldn't mind another day, swaning around 
this magnificent place.

