17 Elephants, Forts and Bollywood
Oct 30
Chris and I have a new category of hotels: 'day hotels' and 'night hotels'. 
Night hotels are good if they have air conditioning, hot water, a shower 
curtain, and mattresses which don't feel like a board. Day hotels are pretty, 
have a good place to read and a view. Comfortable chairs are a plus. 
The castle was the best day hotel we have ever had, but it sucked as a night 
hotel ... no AC, electricity off most of the night so even the fans could not 
run and no hot water. Also, our room had no screens so I had visions of bugs 
attacking all night long. It is, however, a great day hotel.
Breakfast was on the battlements, with wicker chairs placed facing out so you 
could eat looking at the view. There were parakeets flying all around and the 
chatter of the birds was a cacophony of exotic sounds. You could hear the looms 
in the village below a well as the the cows and the water buffalo as they were 
taken out pasture. India is still 70 percent rural, that's a lot of people 
living in the country.
There isn't a lot to do in the place but I could have spent a day with a book, 
sitting and looking the view. As it was, we were put on a bus for a four hour 
ride to Jaipur.
It was founded in 1727 by Rajput Maharaja Jai Singh II, and is a planned city 
with broad avenues and a very distinct and pretty old city. 
The city is here because the settlement before was a few miles north in a fort 
called the Amber Palace. The fort has a massive wall (called India's great 
wall) and you enter by climbing 350 steps up into the walled city. We saw the 
three palaces constructed by the king. The monsoon palace which channels all 
the water down into a waterfall and makes music, the winter palace that is 
stuffed with mirrors for light and to reflect heat, and summer palace that has 
a form of air conditioning which uses deep wells. There was the obligatory 
consultation hall for the monarch and his ministers, and the women's rooms. One 
ruler had 150 wives. I asked what happened to them when he died. The first wife 
to have a son would be exalted because her son would be the new king. The 
others would commit suicide or be put to death. Makes you understand the 
husband days where women fast and pray to keep their husbands healthy. The 
concubine had the option of running away. 
One interesting thing was the cart used to haul the queens about. They were 
expected to wear such exotic saris with so many jewels that they could not move 
about easily on public days, so there were little carts to pull them about the 
palace and ramps for entering and leaving the palaces.
Not everyone climbs up the stairs. As we were walking up I heard someone say 
'elephants on the way, move to your right' and looking over my shoulder I saw a 
parade of elephants with tourists on their backs coming up behind me. I love 
elephants and would like to ride but Intrepid travel doesn't approve of riding 
elephants unless they are in their native area. Elephants never lived in a 
dessert like climate naturally. Still, 'look out for the elephants' isn't 
something you hear every day.
It was HOT. Anil said 33 degrees but the stones of the fort soak up the heat 
and intensify everything. All our guides say it is unseasonably warm this year.
We went past a magnificent hunting lodge on the water and then to our hotel 
which has hot water!  
In the evening the whole group opted to go to a Bollywood movie. It was in an 
old movie theatre, one once used for premiers so it was quite fancy. We had a 
great time at the movie. It used every cliche from every movie you have seen, 
from pink panther to Fred Astair to Rocky. I have decided that when I win the 
lottery I will have fan people to blow my hair about. You never saw the heroine 
with still hair, it was always wind blown. I got obsessed by her hair movement 
on each close up and tried to figure out how many blowers they used for each 
shot. However it was great fun and Bollywood sure knows how to build a climax 
and how to make over the top costumes.
Just at the end Anil signaled us to leave. We got up but insisted on staying 
till the end, much to his distress. He seems obsessed with time and efficiency, 
not with us having a good experience. We four from the first tour have decided 
our mission is to lighten him up a bit.

