18 The Pink City

Oct 31 

Have I talked of camels yet? One of the things I love about this region are the 
camel carts. You see them everywhere: in the lanes, in town on the streets, in 
the fields. I haven't been able to get a good picture of one yet, they are tall 
and they move fast, so I can't focus in time. I have a lot of pictures of camel 
rumps. 

Today was a day of rest, which means no scheduled activities, no changing 
hotels and no travel. I set out to explore the city of Jaipur. 

It is called the pink city because of the stone that is warm in tone. As I 
headed out in the morning I was joined by Andreas, a man from Germany.... you 
have to imagine a German accent here because my tablet auto corrects: 'they say 
this is a pink city, but it is not. It is terra cotta. Not the pink city, the 
terra cotta city' 

'still' I says, 'it is very pretty' 

'it is not pink' 

Trust the Germans. 

Some of us decided to go to the gem demonstration place and climbed into cabs 
to visit that area of that city. The mountains near Jaipur furnish about 70 
percent of the gems coming out of India and there are a huge number of jewel 
shops the city. The Indian government has mandated that all jewels be cut and 
polished by hand so jewelry here is a true handicraft. 

We watched a man with a wheel working on a garnett and then we went into the 
shops. My goodness jewelry is expensive, at least my taste is; I'm glad I left 
my visa at the hotel. Everything I loved was the price of a return trip to 
India. I'd rather travel. 

From there we went into a block printing area and saw a demonstration: some of 
the people made a four colour print. Again the work was beautiful and very 
expensive. I suspect the prices were much higher for the tourists. Some of the 
people in our group went quite mad with buying. 

I was going to skip the city palace as I've seen a lot of old stones on this 
trip but the guide book said there was a good display of costumes. I went in 
but it was a disappointment. They were setting up for a sound and light show so 
there was construction and cables everywhere. The costumes were interesting but 
the explanations on the display were woefully inadequate so you didn't have a 
reference to really understand what you were seeing. I decided to skip the 
armoury, which was a mistake, later on others of our group talked of the 
fantastic elephant guns and tiger traps, I missed those. 

I spent time walking on the streets and doing a bit of haggling and very little 
shopping. I've decided to not buy when I feel overwhelmed, which is most of the 
time; I'll be coming home with very little. 

In the evening I ventured out by myself to find a lasse for dinner. I've become 
quite addicted to them, particularly the ones served in clay glasses, you break 
them up after use, so you know they are only used once. Dinner was a lasse and 
a samosa bought off the street, I think I'm becoming acclimatized. 
