19 Bundi, Rocks and Being Sick

Nov 1 

Just when I think I am finished with old stones I see something that knocks me 
sideways 

But that was later in the day. 

We left Jaipur early this morning. I wasn't sorry; there was nothing wrong with 
the city but it didn't speak to me. We went by bus to Bundi, a four hour ride 
through rich and flat fields, heavily cultivated. The farther we got from 
Jaipur, the more prosperous the people looked. Camels disappeared and motor 
bikes filled the road. The were plenty of tractors about and straight rows of 
crops. 

Bundi looks like all other Indian towns in the outskirts: cement buildings and 
corrugated tin everywhere, but then you turn a corner and see a majestic 
fort/palace, bigger and more complete than anything we have yet seen. 

Our hotel was a pleasant surprise, built by the local Maharaja as a home for 
his prime minister but soon turned into a guest house for visiting dignitaries. 
There is a picture of Lord and lady Mountbaten in the grounds, they were hosted 
here several times. 

We had a few hours to relax in the gardens before being taken by a guide 
through the downtown. Curb side dentists, streets of padlocks or vegetables or 
saris. The town with its population of 150,000 has one street light, but it 
doesn't work so it seems to be a local joke. 

We first examined an amazing step well, built in the 1700 s for the royal 
ladies. Just when you think you have had enough of old stones the carvings and 
the arches make you gape. The water isn't clean and there are pigeons and bats 
everywhere but it is still magnificent. The steps go down into the water and 
just keep going down. It is ground water so the level depends on the monsoons. 
Until water lines were run in the city, women would come here to draw water for 
washing and laundry. 

From the well we explored the old parts of the city taking time to look at the 
stalls in the bazaar. Ingrid always says she can find everything at a bazaar, I 
am not so lucky but I did emerge with two disposable razers, Chris and I had 
been eyeing our legs for some time. One of our tour people was attacked by a 
Jersey cow. He went too close to her calf and she had the whole street fleeing 
from her charges. I asked Anil who owned the cows. There are herds of cattle in 
the country but the cows you see on the streets of cities belong to no one. 
They forage and no one milks them. It is considered bad luck to have a cow die 
near your house so sometimes people let cows go when they get old. There are a 
lot of feral cows in India. 

After that the full bazaar and the beautiful things in the market seemed tame. 
We stopped at a chai shop and had a lovely time talking with the people who 
dropped in and watching the man make chai. I'm getting very addicted to my 
Marsala chai, yet everyone has a slightly different recipe. Every market is the 
same and yet so very different. I hope I have time to explore this one, it had 
a good feel.. 

We walked back to the hotel to find drinks in the courtyard. The kitchen is so 
slow here that you order from the menu, go to your room, rest a bit, have a 
drink with your tour buddies, and still have to wait for dinner. I don't mind, 
that means it is fresh. 

And we had nothing but time. Dinner began at 8 p.m.and ended at 10:30 with us 
chatting all the time. 

The garden is beautiful, there is hot water and the electricity seems to be 
stable, what more can you ask? 

Nov 2 

Well I spoke too soon about the electricity. This hotel is definitely in the 
'day hotel' category. We tried to switch on the a.c. last night and plunged the 
whole place into darkness, so it was a hot, sticky night. Never mind, the 
beautiful paintings on the walls kept you company when you woke up too hot. 

We visited the beautiful old fort today. Situated on the hill, it dominates the 
landscape. It was built over 200 years beginning in the 1500's and was in use 
until 1950 when the Maharaja decided to move to 'a smaller palace'. Presently 
there is a court case going on between a cousin and nephew as to who owns it 
which is too bad as the place is in limbo until things are settled and you can 
see time eating away at some of the magnificent structures. 

You enter the palace via a very steep slope, designed to accommodate elephants 
and with an actual elephant mounting platform built to help the riders mount 
gracefully. Not being so lucky we had to watch our steps going up and were told 
to zig zag on our way down to prevent turned ankles. 

You enter a courtyard which was once the horse stables filled with wild 
blooming flowers and old stone troughs. Nice enough. And then you begin to 
climb. 

I can't begin to describe the various landings and rooms in the palace. Up a 
steep set of stairs and you find an area filled with elephant pillars and 
fountains (not working), another set and you find arches made of mosaics and 
doors with inlaid ivory. Different rooms have the story of Krishna or hunting 
scenes, or a history of some war recorded through art work. Still other rooms 
have paintings of women faintly suggesting pornography. You keep climbing up 
and about different places and just when you think THIS must be the most 
beautiful room the place, you find another one that rivals it. 

Finally we started our way down and I joked to our guide that things just got 
better as we went up, when he took an abrupt turn and lead us up another set of 
stairs, then banged on a trap door above his head. The door opened and we were 
lead out into a huge garden with the royal rooms which were covered in 
Rajasthan art work outlining the life of Krishna, especially the naughty bits, 
like when he hides in a tree while women are bathing and steals their clothes. 
This part of the castle has been taken over by the government for preservation, 
as it should be. Court case or not, these pieces need to be preserved. When 
Kipling saw this fort he wrote it was such a piece of art that humans could not 
have built it, that it must be the work of skilled goblins. 

The way down took a bit of time as it is a very steep ramp, I'm surprised the 
elephants didn't take a tumble some times. 

We climbed back into our jeeps (note to self, with Intrepid jeeps = bad roads) 
and visited another step well. This was not as beautiful as the first but it 
had over 900 steps in it, making interesting patterns. It reminded one of an 
Esher print. Even though the water was dirty there were turtles living in the 
well and you could see them coming to the surface at times. 

Then we made our way to a cenotaph. Built of massive arches you have to climb a 
lot of steps to see it. But I was not well. Looking at the stairs I knew I just 
couldn't do it. The dreaded Delhi belly seems to have caught up with me. I have 
no idea as to why it was there or whom it honors, I just needed to get to bed. 

I asked to go back to the hotel and took the drugs I had prudently purchased 
when so many others in our first group became ill. The others went to see 
Kipling house and then to a hunting lodge for dinner. I stayed in bed, hoping 
the electricity would start so I could at least have a fan. It was not a good 
night. 
