2 Education, Employees and Elegant Dining

October 15

Soni and Ashish are the first people I have ever met who have 'staff'.  Every 
morning two women show up to clean and then one woman returns to do dishes 
later in the day.  They also have a driver.  When we went to the metro 
yesterday the driver dropped us off and then picked us up on our return. We 
took the metro as it was faster than driving.  As we sat on the air 
conditioned and quick metro we could see a snag of traffic barely moving.  Oh 
the delight in not having to find a place to park the vehicle!

I cannot believe the courage it must take to drive here.  Or the courage it 
must take to ride a bicycle in the crush of traffic, yet people seem content to 
do so.

Mishika, Soni and Ashish's daughter is 18.  She is presently studying for her 
international board exams.  I am most impressed with both her commitment to 
studying and her grasp of English literature.  We talked Jane Austen and 
Charlotte Bronte, about the themes in novels and about her extended essay which 
will explore the place of women in these novels and in society.   She has 
long hours at school each day, so long in fact that the school provides 
breakfast, lunch and snack.   This is her final year and she is presently 
exploring further schooling abroad.  UBC is one of the schools she is 
considering and if so I hope to visit her when I am in town.

Even with her very arduous school work she is still finds time to do the 
regular teen things.  She had friends to hang out with and she is a devotee of 
'how I met your mother', 'friends' and 'gossip girl'.

Ashish owns a series of bake shops and employs a large staff. Yesterday evening 
we dropped him off there after our Delhi excursion.  It was about 8:30 in the 
evening and I was surprised to see that the shop was still open.  Soni told me 
that working people often shop after their work day and that evenings were 
their busiest times.  Soni makes chocolates which they also sell from the 
shop.  As it will soon be Diwali there is a large demand for sweets.

Yesterday as we were in Delhi, Soni received a call which was an order for 40 
boxes of chocolates.  This morning she has been making them, mold by mold.  
It is quite labour intensive.  I sampled one before breakfast, it was 
delicious.

Tonight we are heading out to a restaurant called 'Indian Accents' which is 
owned and run by Ashish's brother.  According to trip adviser it is the number 
one restaurant in India.

After the chocolate making Soni and I took the car (with driver) to a market in 
Delhi.  It took a long while to get there as the traffic was heavy and it 
seems that aggressive driving is the rule however I felt very safe with our 
driver at the wheel.

The market was not crowded.  I was happy to go with Soni to have some sort of 
idea about what was offered and the approximate prices ...and of course I had 
to pick up a few things.  As the afternoon wrote on and it became more crowded 
and the excitement of the place became infectious.  Poor Soni is having a fast 
day, so had had no nourishment at all.

The trip home was much faster and we had tea and rested before heading out to 
dinner.  Why does tea taste so much better here than when I make it at home?

Soon the whole family was back in the car and in the most terrible snarl of 
traffic heading out to the restaurant.  It took us almost two hours to get 
there, but the trip was an adventure and we also got to listen to some of 
Mishika's favourite music on the way (a bit like soft rock with some 
interesting twists to it).

The dinner was indescribable.  It started with valet parking by a man with the 
most amazing moustache I have ever seen.  We were ushered to a beautiful 
table  and excellent wait staff began to bring us food.  The owner and chef 
of the restaurant is Ashish's brother and he has won awards internationally.  
His focus is on fusion cooking, combining Indian dishes with new ingredients.  
We had a meal of tiny portions, a little bit of everything and each one 
beautifully presented.  There is a vegetarian and non vegetarian menu.  
Though I had planned to go without meat while in India I just couldn't resist 
so opted for the flesh.

I can't begin to name all the courses.  Roti with blue cheese, a street 
version of fried potatoes with a sweet sauce, white fish with something vaguely 
suggestive of the sauce which goes over butter chicken but infinity better, 
squash soup, pork spare ribs with spicy sweet and sour sauce, a kind of Indian 
taco with Mexican spices and lamb, a little ice cream cone shaped wafer filled 
with spiced duck, poppadom with cheese, a special Cantrell mushroom that was 
dark gray with robust spices on the outside and had that cool nutty flavor 
inside, a kind of flat ravioli, filled with Indian cheese.  I'm sure there 
were more but I've forgotten.

Just as I was getting to the very full stage they brought sorbet 'to clear the 
palate' as it was time for the main course!

More lamb along with wonderfully spiced Dahl and stuffed bread with a variety 
of fillings, but I'm afraid I couldn't do it justice.

For dessert there was black truffle ice cream (don't knock it until you try it) 
as well as apples in cream and a saffron mango custard.  When they brought out 
the roti stuffed with sugar and the marshmallow and caramel (I think) ice cream 
I had to surrender, I couldn't eat another bite.

The whole evening was enhanced by wonderful conversation with the entire family 
and explanations about the food from the servers. Just as we were about to 
leave, a little bed, with a rope mattress was put on the table ..It held small 
bowls of four different digestives.  I believe this will be one of those 
memorable meals you always treasure.

On our way home I was treated to some of the more traditional music of India.  
Ashish translated the lyrics and gave me some of the back ground.  What an 
amazing day it has been. 
