20 Bijapur Tents and Sunsets
Nov 3

'Indian drugs for Indian bugs' said the doctor in Khajuraho, and he was 
certainly right. Today I am back on my feet. Wobbly but functioning.

Good thing too. We are catching an early local train to Bijapur. This train has 
no assigned seating and no air conditioning. Being early morning there were not 
too many people at the station but the monkeys made up for the lack of people. 
In the trees, on the roofs, on the platform, black faced monkeys abounded. I 
had noticed the garbage cans in this area are on pivots and understood why: 
when a monkey tries to land on one, it swivels and drops the animal down so you 
don't have even more garbage on the platform.

Anil told us to grab any seat we found and not worry about sitting together. I 
spied a seat near an open window and snagged it. Putting my suitcase on the 
filthy flour beneath my seat I settled down to watch the view.

It was like the movie 'Out of Africa'. Plains, trees, villages and people. Very 
pretty. During the the hours we were traveling you could see we were heading 
towards a much drier and much poorer area. The rich cultivated fields dried up, 
goats abounded and the people looked more malnourished.

As usual the same boys walk the train selling everything from biscuits and chai 
to sprouted lentils and lemon drinks. There is a never ending call from one end 
of the train to another. I was joined by a very jolly lady in a bright orange 
sari and her rather dour husband. She really wanted to make conversion but had 
no English. Had I been feeling better I would have engaged in a game of 
charades with her but I just didn't have energy. She finally gave up on me and 
moved off.

On our arrival to our station we were piled into jeeps and had an hour drive to 
our new 'hotel'. I love our drives through the countryside. Everyone waves and 
we are obviously very strange to villagers' eyes. We wave in return and when we 
stop I take pictures of people so they can see themselves. They seem to like 
this very much.

We are staying at the edge of a lake in 'deluxe tents' and it is very pretty 
here. There is not much to do. While others went in for lunch I lay on a day 
bed (day beds are wooden bed frames with weaving in them so the air can circle 
you) under a mango tree. From the corner of my eye I saw a movement and looked 
up to see my first ever mongoose. They are so quick! Still I don't see how they 
can conquer a cobra.

Some of our group walked to the local village but I took a nap, to emerge in 
time to do a short hike up a small hill/mountain and watch the sunset. We 
started along a rustic road and then followed a tiny goat path. On the way we 
met goat herders, bringing their flock home for the day and people ushering 
water buffalo along small tracks. There were stone alters everywhere with 
little bits of ribbon and decoration on each. These are small shrines to the 
villager's ancestors who are believed to hover about and protect the families.

At the top of the hill we came across some old walls and arches of what was 
once obviously a fort. As the fort in town is from the 1500s, I'm guessing this 
is from about 1200. Anil warned us to stay away from the walls as they are very 
unstable. Still, to get to our vantage point we had to climb through more 
Indiana Jones structures and over mounds of rocks. On the mountainside we came 
across a wild pea which is the only vegetable the people here can access. The 
pods are long and thin and when I tried one it was rather bitter, but bitter 
green is better than no green. This is a harsh landscape and the people are 
poor.

The sunset was nice but I was more taken by the old structures and carefully 
climbed about, admiring the care and skill people used so many years ago to 
make a good place to live. I made my way down the mountain quietly, before the 
others, savoring the stillness and the view.

Back at the lake we had drinks around a large fire pit and watched the darkness 
fall. We have learned to use a lot of insect repellent and to stay away from 
lights as they attract all sorts of bugs. For the first time our beds have 
mosquito nets about them, which was a good thing as the tents didn't really 
close.

I had not realized that the water was solar heated so, when I got back to my 
tent in the evening, with the sun gone down, there was no longer any warm 
water. Sometimes I wonder if I will ever have clean feet again. No matter, 
lying on bed and listening to the sounds of the night was better than any hot 
shower.

