21  Small villages and large castles
Nov 4
The sun rise this morning was spectacular, much better than yesterday's sunset, 
and over the lake as well. I woke feeling rested and much better and sat 
outside to welcome the day.
We had no hot water of course this morning, no solar heating during the night; 
my feet are cracked and dry from all the dust, but so far no problems.
Today's breakfast was porridge, with a twist. I took a spoonful and realized it 
was rice porridge, rather good actually.
By ten we were loaded up in the jeeps and on our way to a small village. 
Intrepid visits a different village each time they are in the area in a certain 
season. This one was filled with Bheel people, a specific tribe in this part of 
Rajasthan. There are about 700 people in the village and their lives are very 
hard. They seem to exist on goat milk and meat, a peculiar kind of corn, and 
garlic. As we entered the village massive pots of garlic were being shelled and 
the skins given to the goats to eat. I wonder if this pre-seasons the meat.
The children are sweet little ragamuffins, in skirts or pants and with cloths 
draped over their heads. They would take our hands to pull us into their house. 
The women would often pull their saris up and over their faces when we arrived 
but after I had been 'talking' to them for a bit, via gestures, they would 
reveal their faces. I have learned the Hindi word for pretty and use it often. 
It always makes them giggle and I hope it is not my bad accent.
The only other blond in our group is Inge but she has straight hair. The girls 
like to touch her hair but they spend much more time with mine. They like to 
smooth my hair down then laugh when it jumps back into its usual bramble mess. 
The heat and dust have not made it any easier to care for. Anyway it seems to 
be an amusing play thing for teenaged girls.
We spent about two hours there, making 'conversion' through gestures and 
playing with the children, each of them wanting us to see their house and their 
goats or babies. Cecelia, a retired music teacher, pulls the little ones into 
song games, the teen girls gather around me. Anil says that Intrepid does not 
pay the villages anything for the visit but once the state government realized 
that tours were going through these places they stepped up their game. There 
may be only two or three visits a year but since the visits have started the 
government has built a new school in the area and maintains a teacher for the 
children. This is a new occurrence.
We continued in our jeeps through the rocky countryside until we came to 
Bijapur, a nice little town. It is so small that there are only a few shops, 
but we are guests in a glorious castle, such a contrast to the lives we saw 
only an hour away.
This is truly a tourist trap. Henna painting and yoga classes offered for a 
ridiculous price, more than you would pay in Canada and you know it is not 
going to the people who actually provide the services. But the castle is 
charming and huge. There is a swimming pool with Hindu goddesses watching over 
it, a reading room which is filed with day beds and hung with large tapestries, 
an outdoor games room with chess pieces and Indian games I don't understand and 
lined with pictures of past castle owners (not Maharajas but some other term) 
and many mysterious passageways. I seem to get lost every time I leave my room 
and discover another little garden or sitting area which is magical.
On our arrival to the castle we were met with necklaces of marigolds, a red 
Bindi was placed on our foreheads, drummers accompanied us into the building. 
Our room is charming and each room is different, some with lovely paintings, 
some with sunken baths, some with mosaic dressing rooms. It has become a habit 
on our tour to visit each other's rooms on arrival and decide which should be 
the party room. Not that we ever do much but stop by for a drink.
Three of us took a walk to the town to do a bit of looking about but then 
returned to our haven and spent the afternoon around the pool. I love the 
watermelon juice and rose water that is trotted out every little while to be 
sure we are hydrated.  
Others in the group rented bikes and some adventurous souls went horse back 
riding. The horses here are a special breed. Tall and slender they were bred 
for strength and the ability to endure heat. Their ears form a heart shape when 
they put them forward. I went out to see the riders off and discovered a camel 
behind the hotel. Not knowing camel etiquette I didn't approach but tried to 
start a conversation to see if I could get closer. The camel wasn't interested.
I spent the latter part of the afternoon chatting with other guests and 
watching the henna painting being done then met our group on one the lawns for 
drinks and conversion. A harmonium and drum played as men with turbans brought 
us drinks and snacks. It really was the raj. We watched an almost full moon 
rise over this beautiful old structure. No matter how good your camera or how 
magnificent your abilities, you could not capture the magic of the night.
Dinner was outside by the pool. A typical Indian meal, with one 'non veg' dish 
to accommodate the foreigners. I have stayed away from chicken so far but plan 
to enjoy 'mutton' (read goat) if it ever occurs. In Ontario I sampled Kalish's 
goat and it was a treat, I'm anxious for more.
Just as we finished our excellent rice pudding the owner of the place arrived 
to welcome us. He would be called a 'landlord' which means ruler and his family 
has lived in the castle for thirteen generations. He opened the castle as a 
hotel in 1990 and seems a savvy and engaging man. In was nice that he came to 
welcome us personally.
Our group has finally gelled and so we sat and laughed long into the night. 
Even after the table was cleared and even the candles were taken away we sat 
and enjoyed the light the moon. I will be sorry to leave this place tomorrow.

