22 Marble and Magic

Nov 5 

'Marble is slippery' said the manager of our new hotel in Udaipur, 'you are on 
holiday, so when you come down the stairs come slowly, slowly.' He gestured 
through the marble foyer towards the spiral marble staircase that leads to the 
rooms. In our room, filled with beautiful furniture and with two bay windows 
which allow you to lounge on cushions and watch the street below, looking at 
the necklaces of marigolds on the table, I thought that I have already used all 
my superlatives in my blog, I don't know how I am going to describe this day. 

In our last day's castle I had a hard night and am definitely not cured as yet. 
No breakfast for me today. 

We reluctantly left our Bijapur castle this morning; of all the places we have 
stayed, this was the nicest, though our noses are a little bit out of joint; in 
most other places we have been the only guests, in this stay we shared the 
hotel with two other groups ...one from England and one from France. 

We piled into cars and made our way to Udaipur. I have learned that 'pur' means 
settled by Hindu kings. In this case by a very long running dynasty which 
traces its roots back to 500 A.D. 

The journey was relaxing and comfortable, Simone remarked that this is the 
first time we've been able to sit forward, we are usually piled sideways in 
jeeps. 

We arrived in Udaipur and settled into a lovely old hotel. It is a bit run down 
but you can't argue with marble throughout and though you have climb a ladder 
get to it, there is a roof top restaurant with a glorious view. 

Udaipur is known as the Venice of India or the city of lakes and it is 
refreshing to be in a town where water is a visual constant. It is also known 
as the city of coffee so we all took off to a local coffee shop to recharge our 
coffee addiction before meeting our guide for that afternoon. 

We were taken to the city palace, Rajasthan's largest palace. There is a triple 
gate where the rulers were weighed so their weight in gold and silver could be 
distributed to the poor. I can't really say enough about the palace. The family 
can trace their entire family tree and there was a chart with the succession. 
The palace is colossal and only a small part of it is open to the public yet we 
spent three hours there. There are frescoes, mirrored bedrooms, colored glass, 
inset paintings, Chinese and Dutch tiles, mosaics, stained glass and more. The 
complex is several kilometers long and built into a mountain so you get huge 
old trees growing on the third and fourth floors. 

Our guide was very knowledge and filled our ears with stories of warriors who 
fought on foot against war elephants, ladies who burned themselves alive rather 
than be dishonored, men who climbed on the backs of others to fight when their 
war horses fell, mothers who sacrificed their children for the heirs of the 
kingdom and the like. 

When the British invited all the rulers to meet in 1911 this province was the 
only one where the ruler responded by saying it was customary for the guest to 
come to the host, not the other way round. This has been the best palace ever 
and I am so sorry I can not share more of it, it is definitely worth a Google. 

Most of us decided to attend a cultural dance performance that evening. It was 
held in the courtyard of a museum (also a palace of some kind). We arrived to 
find almost filled benches and carpets spread on the floor. Wanting to see the 
feet I chose the ground. 

I can't describe the different dances. I loved that the dancers were from their 
teens to 67 years old. There were dances with fire, a dance which mimicked a 
snake, one where the dancers sat the whole way through and used finger cymbals 
and knives, that dances were performed only with marionettes. That huge unknown 
instruments were used to accompany, such as an enormous early trumpet that only 
had three notes or a conch shell as well as harmonium and different drums. I 
loved that the skirts, cut on a bias and covered with glittering objects, 
created a wind when they swept past you and that everyone wore bells on their 
ankles or shells that clacked in their hair. The highlight of the night was a 
67 year old dancer, with my body type but wider, doing the water dance. Putting 
two large pots on her head she danced and picked up a handkerchief from the 
floor, adding another pot she ran and lay down, three more made the pots as 
tall as her and she knelt and swayed, adding more, the pots were almost twice 
as tall as she and she danced on glass marbles. It brought the house down. 

At the Bollywood movie I had been aware of a different sensibility that I 
didn't quite get. Here you could see the genesis of a new (to me) kind of 
presentation. For me, the dance performance has been the best part of 
Rajasthan. 

After the performance we crossed the lake via a foot bridge and had dinner at a 
roof top restaurant under a nearly full moon. The city palace and the summer 
palace (located in the lake) were both lit up and beautiful. 

We walked home under a moon just a sliver shy of perfect. 

Nov 6 

A free day. 

I woke this morning so thankful I hadn't given in to peer pressure and signed 
up for 7 a.m. yoga. 

This has been a day of visiting shops and spending on silly things. The shop 
owners are canny and know us. They know we are from Intrepid, they know who 
barters and who doesn't. Several people on our trip have had clothes made for 
them and it has been fun to help with the fabric selection. 

Our one scheduled activity was a boat ride round the lake, pretty views but a 
snooze fest to anyone used to boats. I got my palm read and am happy to report 
that I am a good and accomplished person who will be famous and will live into 
her nineties. 

With so many gods and so many religions there seem to be festivals very often 
and today was a small one. Thus the atm machines ran out of money and we spent 
time hunting up new ones which could accommodate a transaction or two before 
they too would be unavailable. Atm hunting has become quite a joke. 

I meant to get to the coffee shop today for a quiet cappuccino and some decent 
internet but somehow I kept getting swept up in group activities or gossip 
about what the astrologer had said about each of us. The internet at the hotel 
has been dismal so if I have ignored some posts or notes please excuse me. 

Dinner was on a roof top again, reclining on sofas and enjoying the views of 
the lighted palaces on the lake. Both the James Bond movie Occtapussy and the 
Marigold Hotel movies were filmed here so we are in quite a tourist trap. 

Tomorrow we take a 5 a.m. train to Pushkur so we have been loading up on 
crackers and water to keep us going on the six hour train ride. 
