23 Pushy Pushkar and the end of the tour.
Nov 7
Bleary eyed and sheep like this morning we all assembled in the lobby at an 
indecently early hour to catch our early train. I may have had my t shirt on 
inside out, but, by the fates, I had freshly washed and clean hair.
Beautiful and old hotels come with a cost, and this is usually crumbling 
staircases, and unusual plumbing. There are so many systems in this country and 
sometimes I have to go down to the front desk to find out how to flush a 
toilet. The term 'hot' is also malleable when it comes to spices and water; but 
this morning I climbed into a Tuk Tuk fully scrubbed.
Which was a mistake.
The early morning wild ride was cold! There was no one on the streets and the 
drivers let loose, roaring round corners and dodging cattle as if they were in 
a time qualifying race. For the first time in India I was wishing for more heat 
and, as usual while in any motorized vehicle, I understand why people here are 
so devout. You really do feel as if you should pray.
Bless the lovely boys who come through the train every few minutes selling 
Marsala chai. For ten rupees (less than 20 cents) you get a small, flavorful 
cup to warm you up and delight your senses.
The six hour train ride was uneventful. As usual my hair stirred the interest 
of teen girls and a several babies wandered up and gazed for a bit. Their 
parents were fine with me offering them my oatmeal biscuits so by the time I 
got off the train the whole box was gone.
We were heading for Pushkar yet another holy city.  
The trip involved the usual bustle getting off the train, the multilayered 
platforms which means lugging full suitcases up and down flights of stairs, and 
piling into vehicles for a ride through countryside.
We have just missed the annual camel festival which brings in up to half a 
million people each year. Still the stalls are still up and many vendors who 
came for the event are still here. Our hotel is more than a kilometre out of 
town because there is no vacancy any closer.
Deciding I couldn't face a kilometre walk in the heat of the day I spent the 
afternoon in the pool before we gathered to take our camel ride.
I've never been on a camel before, and they aren't difficult to ride if you 
don't mind the jostling. They aren't very easy to get on. You mount the camel, 
put your feet in the 'stirrups' (read pieces of thin rope tied to the saddle), 
straighten your legs and lean WAAAY back while the camel lurches to straighten 
its back legs, then WAAAY forward so the camel can get to its feet.  
We were heading to the desert area just outside of town to watch the sunset. 
After about ten minutes I was feeling like I had a handle on the process except 
I felt I was listing to the right. Sure enough, my boy stopped my camel and had 
me get off (reverse the above process) so he could tighten the saddle. (Same 
thing happened to Abed, another of our tour people). This took a bit of time so 
our progress to the meeting point was done at a slow trot ... a trotting camel 
does not give you a smooth ride. You have to give it to the wise men, they were 
tough cookies.
We went out onto a piece of sandy desert just outside the town in time to see 
the sun set. The moment we were off the camels they lay in the sand and 
wiggled. Seems they really love the sand. They don't like waking on pavement, 
you can see they are much happier in sand. Sunset done we headed back to town 
and said goodbye to our mounts then walked through the town. Three hours on a 
camel is not enough. 
In the town frantic selling people, waving things in front of your face, 
starting at twenty euros and dropping to one hundred rupees but we had no time 
to shop, we were hungry and ready for a nice dinner. Off to another roof top 
restaurant, after the camel ride, five sets of steep stairs took their toll. I 
have no idea of how old or disabled people would function here.
On our way home we got an idea of the layout of the town.
Pushkar is one of India's holiest cities and has the only temple to Brahma (the 
generator). There is also a huge Sikh temple here as well as a holy river. 
Tomorrow will be a day of exploring.
Nov 8
For a very holy city this is a place of scams and bad behavior. Throughout this 
tour we have been lucky in our dealings with almost everyone but our luck seems 
to have run out here. Chris (who is waiting for a hip replacement and walks 
with a cane) got her bottom pinched last night, and responded by giving her 
assailant a mighty whack in return (he seemed surprised). I didn't react so 
well in a tight group where I was groped. I swung back my elbow and probably 
hit the wrong person.  
This morning Chris and I decided to go off for a shopping excursion. A holy 
river runs through the city and old guys in orange will bless you at the river 
(for a price). As Chris and I were making our way to town we were constantly 
being blocked and 'invited' to the river. 'later' we would say, 'right now 
we're shopping.'
'Shopping closed, you come now' were the demands, even though we could see the 
stalls in full swing.
But the most irritating thing to happen was a purchase.
Chris wanted to buy a bag and she and the merchant settled for 100 rupees. Not 
having proper change she gave him 500 and he accused her of only giving him 
100. There was definitely some slight of hand going on as he invited her to 
show him a 500 rupee note, and started to undress in the street to show that 
there was no note hidden on him. Soon we were surrounded by about thirty 
yelling men saying he was an honest man. Yelling abounded.
I really admired Chris. 'I have never stolen in my life' she yelled over him 
'and YOU are cheating me'. When he refused to budge she said 'Right, let's get 
the police'
'no police, no police' said everyone in the crowd
'police! Police !' Yelled Chris, and she stopped a man in a security guard who 
was going past on a bike asking him to get the police. He wasn't interested and 
drove on by.
When there was an opening in the crowd Chris grabbed her bag, grabbed me and we 
were off, the semi naked merchant muttering to us that we had bad karma and our 
plane was about to crash. It was quite disturbing.  
And it wasn't even a very nice bag.
Within moments we were known on the street. We decided not to visit the temple 
to Brahma, you have to leave all your things at the street before you enter and 
with our luck there would be no shoes when we got back. We did admire the 
temple from the outside and take a good look at the Sikh temple.
We got back to the hotel and prepared for the final dinner with the group but I 
started feeling unwell. Within an hour I was throwing up and miserable.
That night we were scheduled to take a night train to Delhi. Frantically hoping 
I would be better I took what drugs I could but could not keep them down. 
The taxi ride to the train station involved two breaks for me to heave onto the 
street. Once at the train station I abandoned my suitcase and merely lay on the 
platform until I could climb into my hard berth. My wonderful tour people made 
up my bed, lay me down and looked after my possessions.  
Being very ill on an eleven hour train ride with lurching cars and dirty 
washrooms is no picnic. I figure I'm pretty tough.
Nov 9
We were off the train and back to Delhi by 7 this morning. Still ill I was 
happy we had a day room to rest in. I'm on the mend, just feeling like a rag 
doll. Abed, a pharmacist, went out and got electrolyte drinks for me, and they 
are helping.
People from our tour are preparing to leave. After only a few weeks together we 
have bonded well. Chris and I have taken a hotel room for another night in 
Delhi but I'm dull company. We got a pleasant surprise when we met some of the 
people from the first part of the tour and had lunch together. Most of them are 
having a last night in Delhi and are celebrating with a last Bollywood movie. 
Much as I would love to join them I'm being sensible and working on getting 
better. Tomorrow I return to see Soni and her lovely family.

