24 Last days and last thoughts
Nov 10
The last scraps of our tour are still hanging on. With Gmail and some walking 
those of us still left in Delhi managed to connect for one last day together. 
Our intent was to travel to see Akshardham, a huge Hindu temple, recently 
built, which combines the act of worship with a rather Disney presentation of 
the history of India and the history of the temple. Unfortunately it was 
Monday, the only day the temple is closed.
It is surprising how you get used to a situation: calmly crossing streets which 
would have terrorized us at the top of the tour, Chris and I commented to each 
other that the 'traffic is rather sparse today' and none of us were daunted as 
we negotiated with tuk tuk drivers for a price, or surprised when one tuk tuk 
ran out of gas. We've learned to give all the money to one person and then we 
firmly tell all the drivers that SHE has the money, that way we all end up at 
the same place and together.
Our destination was the city park, a large circular area built by the British 
with green space in the center and beautifully grand ringed roads with 
impressive architecture and expensive shops fanning out. We walked on the 
green, we window shopped, we paid an impossible amount of rupees for special 
coffees, enjoyed our last day together. We have been so fortunate with our 
group.
We decided to have one last metro ride so returned via the crowded, always busy 
and exciting transit system, calmly switching lines and negotiating tracks. It 
is comforting to think that we have quickly learned these new navigation tools.
Back at the hotel I said goodbye and started my trek to Soni's place. Though 
she had offered to send her driver I felt I was putting them out enough and had 
decided to take a cab. The cab driver spoke very little English and was 
illiterate so my carefully copied out address was of little use to him. Though 
the hotel people swore he would know where to go I was fortunate that Ashish 
had called the hotel to give him a cell phone number. An hour plus later, after 
stops at a metro station, many questions asked of food vendors, and three cell 
phone calls to Ashish, I arrived. The taxi driver was rather put out, I don't 
think he had realized exactly how far I needed to go, but I was there.
Soni and Ashish take the 'guest is god' aspect of hosting to heart. Once in 
their lovely apartment I was cosseted, coddled and generally treated as a 
princess. Poor Misika, still studying for finals gave up her room and the 
family listened to my varied tales and widened my experience by explaining the 
background of the many places I had been.
Soni, knowing I love food, planned an evening of 'street food' to introduce me 
to the flavors of things I didn't dare to eat from the street, going so far as 
to make special dishes just for me. We went to a local food market and each 
time I didn't recognize something she would purchase it and make it for me. I 
adore custard apples (why have I never known them before), had special gourd 
for breakfast and a series of delicious food experiences, each one topping the 
last. When Soni and Ashish get tired of their present life I suggest he become 
a tour guide and she run cooking classes, they would be a sensation.
Our last days were filled with conversation and laughter, a night time drive 
through new Delhi, way too much food, and on my last day Soni took me to 
Akshardham! We spent four hours watching the multimedia show, taking in a boat 
ride which explained India's history, viewing a film about the founding guru of 
the temple and, of course, visiting the magnificent temple and admiring the 
carvings, the statues and the fine work everywhere. It is a magnificent place 
and I was happy that no cameras were allowed. There was so much to take in, it 
was good that you didn't have to negotiate the thousands of flash pictures 
which would have abounded.
Finally, at eleven that night, I was dropped off at Delhi airport to begin my 
twenty six hour trip home. Even my check in and security went smoothly at both 
airports and I arrived home to find my dear friend Carolyn waiting for me, even 
though I had been put on a different flight and wasn't sure we would find each 
other.
Last thoughts
I am smitten with India; I am in love.
Being a sensible, middle aged woman, I am not blind to the many drawbacks of 
the country: the poverty, the unequal wealth, brown outs, the remnants of the 
caste system, overpopulation, dust, hard mattresses, late trains and dirty 
squat toilets to name only a few.
But these are nothing to the riches and beauty that are offered up a thousand 
times a day.
Sometime during my first week in India I started a list of surprises and 
delights which I came across randomly. Each day was filled with magical 
moments.   
Somehow the list is lost but here are a few that I remember:
painted cows, beautiful sunrises and sunsets, water buffalo swimming across a 
river, the call to prayer, candles made of leaves floating on the Ganges, the 
burning funeral pyers, parakeets and vultures living together, beautiful young 
men dancing with staffs and peacock feathers, carved arches reaching across the 
centuries, the hopes and aspirations of generations which went onto the 
building of each stone wall or magnificent castle, darling flocks of goats 
being driven to new pasture, tall, beautiful women carrying every and anything 
on their heads, devout people of all faiths indulging in their personal 
rituals, the insistent call of merchants and the chai laced negotiations at 
shops, crushing heat of stone and cool breezes of rivers, laundry whitening in 
the sun, rice fields and corn harvests, banyon trees, mango trees, dry red 
rocks where nothing grows, prehistoric rock painting, smokey chai made 
outdoors, elephant traffic jams, the hard rocking of a camel saddle, a large 
moon just a sliver shy of perfection, the whimsical jokes in the carvings of 
temples which co exist with serious devotion, idols in rocks and caves which 
are a testament of belief systems so old as to be incomprehensible, pigs 
rooting for food on city streets, the crush of bodies at transportation venues, 
the spicy smells of the market, the effortless squatting of street merchants.
There is so much more.
What do you say about a country that is always surprising, and challenging and 
fun, and loud and engaged and exciting?  How can you quantify an experience 
that made you grow and question things you had always taken as true, and things 
you had never considered before?  How can you reflect the amazing dedication 
and kindness of all the people we met, and of the intensity of the experience? 
 
I can honestly say that my India trip was the most exciting and best holiday I 
have ever had.  There were times that were hard, but that is because I was 
trying to cram SOO much experience and understanding into every day.  I loved 
it.  I feel that I could visit a thousand times and still have only a cursory 
understanding of the country.  
Finally though, India is a feast. For the eye, for all the senses, it 
overpowers, intoxicates, and overwhelms you. There is do much beauty, so much 
history, so much heart.
I really am in love.   

