 3 Chocolate, buffalo milk and many, many women 

Oct. 16

'Why is it that I love your tea so much?'  I asked Soni this morning.  'When 
I make tea at home it is never this good'

'I don't know' she replied, 'maybe it's the buffalo milk'

Who knew?  Buffalo milk is absolutely delicious in tea.

This morning I joined Soni and Ashish as they accompanied Mishika to her stop 
to catch the bus to school.  We drove to the pick up point, waited with her 
until the bus came and then drove to a park which had a large green space and a 
walkway around the perimeter.  This is their normal routine, they drop off 
their daughter then walk the circuit twice and stop in the park to stretch and 
exercise.  It is obviously something many people do.  There are people 
playing badminton, practising yoga, meditating and one gentleman stands in the 
park and laughs loudly, it apparently clears the lungs.  It was nice to go for 
a walk and stretch my legs.

On our return Soni had to get to work on her large order of chocolates. I 
packed up, wrote to people, tried to help but was really in the way, so took 
myself off for a longer walk, exploring the compound and a few of the streets 
in the area before heading back.

I found the chocolate making was in high gear. Soni made the chocolates, a man 
from the shop and the driver were wrapping them, and Ashish was sealing the 
finished boxes with shrunk wrap before they were again wrapped in colourful 
shiny paper in honour off Diwali.  Finally I was able to lend a small hand, 
knocking chocolates out of the molds and taking them to the men to be wrapped.

Somehow in all this Soni had time to prepare a delicious meal .... having heard 
me say Toor Dahl was my favourite, she made some along with what Mrs. Rani 
calls 'Indian French fries' and gave me a lesson in the process.

Suddenly it was time to leave my wonderful hosts and Ashish drove me to the 
hotel.  On the way we had a very interesting discussion about the British in 
India and the years which have followed them, the successes and failures.  The 
time flew by.

Then we found the street the hotel is on.

This was the cause of some adrenaline.  The streets are narrow and cars, 
motorcycles, pedicabs, bicycles, pedestrians and rickshaws are all competing 
for space.  I got very quiet, not wanting to cause any distraction.

Since I've been here I have suspected that the lines on roads are not lanes, 
but merely suggestions.  This road was too narrow for lines and I am still 
amazed we got through the gaps with no scratches on any vehicles. For a time it 
was a complete stand still then the traffic would begin to move in a jumpy 
fashion.  I can't describe how crowded it was. The most aggressive driver 
wins, dashing into the tiniest space and holding his own, no matter what.  Men 
sitting on the streets lend a hand by signalling to the driver that he has a 
wee amount of room to pull up and let another go by.  Amazingly no one seems 
to get upset, or too worried.  I would have had a small nervous breakdown if I 
had to navigate those streets.

The welcome to the tour was a little bit bumpy.  There are twelve people in 
the group, the maximum number.  All women but one.  Most of us middle aged. 
There are two women from Australia who seem very scattered and get fixated on 
little problems, another, also from Australia who seems a bit bubble headed.  
A few Brits, one who won't eat chicken unless it is free range.  I thought 
there was a pretty good chance that it was.  If not, they could always lie, as 
an unnamed friend of mine does when confronted by indignant guests....you know 
who you are, Madame.  She (the English woman)  also took her leftovers with 
her to feed the stay dogs.  Personally I suspect she'll be feeding the stay 
rats, so does our tour guide, I think, as he made a joke about how fat the rats 
were when I suggested that to the table.

There is a woman from California who seems very nice but we had little time to 
talk as she had arrived via Duibi about an hour before and had that glazed look 
of too much flying and not enough sleep.  Another woman from Canada who may be 
lots of fun and who talks as much as I do.  I am sharing with a retired math 
teacher from Cranbrook.  She is an avid hiker, seems to have been to many 
interesting places, and would make a welcome addition to any book club so I 
feel very lucky.

The six of us went out to dinner with our guide, the beautiful young man with 
the unpronounceable name. Ingrid says the key to a good tour is a good guide.  
I tried to quiz him on his history with the company but got very few answers.  
We shall see. 
