4 Temples and trains 

October 16


I think I was hasty in my judgement of the group yesterday, already most of 
them are quite a bit of fun and some of the foibles I worried about before now 
seem rather charming, or at least amusing.

Our night was punctuated by the sounds of a birthday party at our hotel, one to 
which we were not invited.  Much shouting, a certain amount of music, and 
mysterious bangs accompanied our dreams, and then our muttering,  awake and 
irritated  moments.

We were to be in the lobby, our packed bags in storage, by 8:00 a.m. and 
everyone actually was.  Like a mother hen Yajnabalkya, (we call him Mithun ) 
ushered us on to the metro, painstakingly showing us all the streets we should 
notice in case we got lost.

We went from a quite crowded train to a VERY crowded train and headed to the 
Jama Masjid, a mosque built in 1656 by Shah Jahan. It has three huge gates and 
three huge domes to the west which face Mecca.

You had to pay to take in a camera and the women were required to don  
terribly ugly robes that buttoned up right up to the neck because, of course, a 
bunch of middle aged women are sure to stir the interest of the men.

There were birds eating on the plaza because seed had been scattered about. 
Every little while a bang would be heard and all the birds would rise into the 
air and fly about, then the whole thing would begin again.

The place was quite lovely with its red rocks and repeating arches.  Scholars 
were reading scripture, and long lines of mats were put out for prayers.

After the mosque we headed past the cracker or fireworks shops which were doing 
a booming business as Diwali is coming up (ha ha).  You seem to be able to buy 
almost everything explosive. I suspect Diwali will be a loud time.

It was very exciting to explore the narrow streets of old Delhi.  They are so 
narrow that even the three wheeled rickshaws could not make it through.  The 
most interesting part of the alleys are the electrical wires strung everywhere 
and the fascinating doorways which line both sides.  Though the streets are 
dingy, the glimpses of some of the insides of the places are sad reflections of 
past grandeur.  Beautiful carvings, a series of arches, tantalizing staircases 
with intricate tile work.  So many indications of a time when this was a place 
of hope and dreams.

We stopped in the alley for some chai, at a lovely little stand.  An old 
gentleman was boiling milk over a complicated stove on a table the size of a tv 
table.  He was particularly proud of his pouring method and wanted us to take 
shot after shot of him.

After wandering the ally we headed to the sheesgange gurudwara , a sikh temple 
built of marble.  Before we could enter the temple we had to wash our hands 
and walk barefoot through water to be sure we were clean.

 I did not realize that they treat their holy book as a person, getting it up 
in the morning, fanning it through the day and putting it to bed at night.  
The sanctuary had been put up in the spot where one of the gurus was 
beheaded.  The tree where he killed himself had to be cut down for the temple 
but the trunk was in a glass case and people we kneeling down in front of it.  
The place where the holy  book rests each night is beautifully made up with a 
bed a satin and jewels and there is as window to the room where people kneel 
and make offerings.  The music throughout our visit was fantastic with 
chanting and instrumentals.

We went to the kitchen to see the devout preparing food for all who come.  I 
sat down with the women and rolled out some roti (thank you Mrs rani)  they 
were place on a huge grill and puffed up immediately, in bulk.  The cauldrons 
of her could not be lifted by three strong people.   Lastly we went to get 
blessed by receiving food from the holy men.

Then came the most fun of all.  We climbed into the rickety pedal rickshaws 
and made our way to the spice market.  It was crazy busy and fun to be in the 
midst of the bustle.  But the horns in the middle of the street, always 
blaring, are quite overwhelming.

Suddenly every one seemed to realize they were hungry so, to fortify ourselves 
before the market we stopped for lassies, made from buffalo milk then walked 
through the market.  We visited several tea places where they combine their 
own potions and make unlikely blends.  Heading to the spice market, along the 
busy streets we realized there was no such thing as personal space ...You are 
jammed up next to the person ahead and behind you.

At the spice market pungent smells hit the back of your throat, making you 
sneeze.  The colors and textures were incredible.  To get a good view of the 
whole set up we climbed and climbed and climbed stairs until we were at the top 
of a large square.  During the spice land trail, this area was a trading house 
and it has continued on ever since.

Most of us had been planning to visit the red fort but with Diwali the traffic 
and the crowds are even intense than usual.  Adding the amount of time it 
would take to get there and back we decided to take rickshaws to the metro and 
head back to our hotel.

One of the drivers decided that the women in his vehicle did want to go, so 
suddenly we were confronted with a lost couple, frantic phone calls and 
confusion reined until we were all finally  united.

We had just time to grab a snack and our things and had to the train station.  
Here Mithun suddenly got very concerned. Ladies were to wait in the ladies 
lounge tightly grasping their bags, holding on to everything always.

When the train arrived one of the women elected to get a porter, who promptly 
got into a fight with another one and took off with her case.  We were trying 
to stay together and to get her luggage back but the crowds were immense and 
someone was always getting swept away.  Other porters approached me but I hung 
on to my case with grim determination.  Up the stairs, up some more, along an 
endless corridor, down stairs, more walking, up more stairs to the platform.  
We put our luggage into a heap and circled it with our bodies like covered 
wagons waiting for an attack.

Finally the train arrived and we hustled into our places, vainly trying to cram 
our suitcases under the seats.  Two lovely young men who were also in the 
compartment helped us and soon we had our luggage chained to the seats and were 
in conversation.

Just as we were settled, guards came by (carrying guns) for our passports and 
phone numbers.  We duly gave them our information and I sternly said to the 
boys in our apartment, 'now you remember our numbers, we'll be expecting calls 
from both of you'

They have me a quizzical look.

'we are not the kind of women who spend a night with men if they aren't the 
type to call later.'

That opened the gates and we have been laughing, chatting, sharing food and 
photos and jokes ever since.

Finally we set up the beds, (two sheets and a blanket for everyone) and we have 
clamored into bed.  I wish I had known more about the process, I wouldn't have 
worn an underwrite bra .... I plan to remove it when most people are 
sleeping.  I'm feel like I'm in an area only slightly bigger than a coffin, 
but I love being rocked sleep.  Still, with this mattress it is going to be a 
long night.  I hear the bathrooms are pretty sketchy too. 
