 5  Holy City, Holy Cow 

October 17
Well that was quite a night. Rocky, loud but sort of interesting. 
 Gingerly inching my way down the ladder at 3 a.m. I was dreading the bathroom 
but can only say those who said bad things obviously haven't been in an Alaskan 
outhouse. It wasn't bad at all.
At 6 am the hawkers on the train come by selling chai or coffee, and a variety 
of interesting meal options. The countryside going by was beautiful, lush rice 
fields, little goats, fields of what looked like corn, beautiful children 
playing.
We pulled into Varanasi only a little late; the most holy of Indian cities, 
this is where people bathe in the Ganges and families bring their dead to be 
burned.
HOLY!!!
This place is dirty and this place is loud. I would not have believed that any 
road could get busier than the ones in Delhi but these are. It is also filthy, 
with garbage and rubble everywhere, but there are also great cows walking the 
streets, monkeys climbing the buildings, excellent looking produce and lovely 
markets. We also saw a group of buffalo walking the streets, I'm in love with 
buffalos, their milk is incredible. 
When a cow or bull is in the road you stop. You wait, and when they lie down in 
the road the traffic gingerly tip toes around them. I think cows are the only 
thing that slows down traffic.
We were taken to the hotel to freshen up in Tuk tuks which have particularly 
piecing horns. Ours also had a boom box, in case the shouting and the horns 
weren't enough.
I opted to swim in the pool while waiting for a room. Our hotel was once the 
home of the king of Nepal. I have decided I could live the royal life quite 
easily.
 Our rooms were to have been ready when we finished breakfast but they would 
be 'a few minutes' which turned into two long swims, conversation with people 
from the south, trying inadequately to recharge my ailing android, and various 
other things. Finally I had twenty minutes to shower, get dressed, set up my 
clothesline and do some laundry before we ventured back on to the streets.
You can not walk in pairs here. It is so crowded you just hope you don't lose 
your team. One of the women from our group couldn't cope and Mithun had to hold 
her hand, rather hard if you can't walk side by side. Beggars here are 
everywhere, as is everyone else. I'm still trying to take in all the various 
sights and sounds.
A late lunch of southern Indian cuisine and we went to the silk area where we 
were given a lesson on weaving then we walked the river banks. We were late 
because of the rooms so we didn't get to see as much as I would have liked. But 
we had to be on the river for the evening ceremony
An old boat pulled up to the stairs and we got on board. First we cruised down 
the river, going past the places where bodies are burned and many temples. Then 
the boat turned about and we headed back to where the evening ceremonies are 
held. We were serenaded on the sitar by a young musician and the people on the 
boat had little candles in leaves which were lit. We each got to make three 
wishes and placed the candles in the river. Then we floated on, watching the 
people on the river banks and the flaming dance that is performed. (I don't 
know about it so I'll have to read up on it).
The Ganges is lined with gnats: stairs and decks made of stone that line the 
river. They are built as a way to give people access to the river as well as 
keeping the river from eating away at the banks.
The ceremony is long and loud. Great numbers of bells clamoring and a speaker 
system set up so you can hear the chanting, combine this with the crush of 
people and its one loud place.
But beautiful.
Buildings like the castle that once housed a king, a sunken temple and a 
variety of temples along the river. On the other bank you can see horses and 
camels. When the boat man cut the engine and when the sitar stopped playing , 
there was something magical about being on the river.  
We got back about nine but were so tired it felt like midnight. We need to be 
up for the 5 am ceremony tomorrow so it is one drink in the bar and then off to 
bed.

