 6 Water, water, sand and mud

Oct 19 

I believe this has been one of those days that will stay with me forever. Magic 
in so many senses of the word. 

We needed to be up early today but my I usual 3 a.m. waking was really early. I 
think we are all working on an average of five hours a night and it will one 
day catch up to us, but so far, so good. 

We were at reception this morning by 4:45 and in vans to catch a boat back out 
onto the Ganges. Pleasant as last evening was, the morning ritual is so much 
better. This morning there was no smoky and loud diesel in our ears and the 
boat men rowed us down the Ganges. We heard the morning bells, saw people 
washing in the water and witnessed the most amazing sun rise. The sun was so 
red against the mist, it looked like a toy ball. 

We spent a lot of time watching: people washing, people bathing, people 
praying, people playing cricket. Monkeys climbing about the buildings, Indian 
squirrels alert for any bit of food, wild dogs, goats in impossible places and 
the ever present cows. And when we came to the top of the most accessible 
ghats, we decided that, instead of going back by boat, we would walk. 

It is surprising to note the difference between boating and walking. From the 
boat you see the big picture, walking you have to watch your feet, so you 
notice the little details, the towels hanging from twisted ropes in the sun, 
the thwak of laundry being beaten on rocks, the smell of sandalwood as the 
vendors approach you, the constant bells, horns and chants. 

We had a bit of a disaster this morning. Steve, the only guy on the tour, 
slipped and fell on the stairs walking through one of the ghats. Not only did 
he fall down about five steps, but he got mud and algae all over himself. 
Mithun hauled him up and took him to the Ganges to get the mud off. Though we 
were teasing him that he would be the holiest of all of us, we were worried 
that he might have broken a rib or hurt his shoulder. We also had an issue. 
Both Mithun and Steve had very muddy shoes but you are not supposed to enter 
the Ganges in shoes as they are considered unclean. When they tried to clean 
off their sandals there were a fury of protests by the older men on the river 
bank. We women decided to retreat quietly and not get in the way. 

We carried on to breakfast but found that the way was not very clear. Every 
year, during the monsoons, the Ganges floods and the river banks are covered in 
mud. This mud must be chipped off and taken away. Ten years ago there was a 
tremendous flood with the water going up about two stories. In some areas of 
the river the mud deposited had still not been cleared away. Added to that, we 
came upon the discharge of some kind of water from above in a particular yucky 
place. Someone had put out a variety of rocks and bricks which sort of kept you 
off the muck, if they didn't topple you into it. We struggled on, stepping 
gingerly from brick to brick and no one had a tumble, though some of our party 
slipped and went ankle deep into the mud. 

Not wanting to brave other old men and clean our feet we carried on to a 
restaurant which had a hose, but little water, so some people are breakfast 
with mud from the Ganges drying slowly on their legs. 

On our return Steve was whisked to a doctor (nothing broken) and we then piled 
into vans and drove to our next adventure. It took a long time to escape 
Varanasi and we observed miles of transport trucks parked on the side of the 
road. They can only go through the town at night so they were waiting. They had 
black long baubles hanging from various bits of the vehicle. This is to ward 
off the evil eye, which it's more powerful when stopped. 

Once passed the city we sped along a not very good road (no seat belts in the 
back where I was sitting) then down secondary roads and past small villages; I 
so wish I could have taken pictures. Back down to the Ganges. We saw two 
elephants on the way ...one on the street, painted up for a wedding that was 
just beginning, and one on a major highway bridge crossing the Ganges...I am 
glad to say that most drivers stopped to let the elephant by. 

On the river there were for boats waiting for us. Three were for passengers and 
one was a cooking boat. We crawled in, kicked off our shoes and lounged on 
pillows and cotton blankets. Once we were all settled the boats pulled into the 
river and all four were tired together. We were given lunch ...an Indian salad 
of onions and cucumber, paneer with spinach, rice, Dahl, curried cauliflower, 
and plenty of roti. A sweet dessert and chai. It felt sinfully luxurious to 
recline on a pillow, snack on delicious food and drift down the river. 

Once fed, the boats were unlatched, sails were put up and we continued along. 
We saw temples, factories, fisherman, women farming terraced banks, cowherds, 
and so many tiny facets of life on the river. 

The cruise took about five hours and we finally piled up on a small island of 
sand in the Ganges. Here the boat men rolled out a large blanket for us to sit 
on and put up tents. I felt like one of those nomads you see on national 
geographic. We indicated our willingness to help with the tents but I suspect 
we were rather in the way. Chai was served and we watched the day slip away as 
the sun set and a glorious pink haze filled the river. In the distance you 
could hear the evening ceremony we had attended the day before. 

Thank goodness I brought a flashlight, as there is no light here. But you can't 
really use a light anyway, you are bombarded with moths if you show a light, so 
we sat in darkness and watched the stars come out. Still I'm happy to have a 
light moving in and out of the tent and finding stuff in the dark. 

Dinner was cooked over a fire and a stove. Eggplant was roasted whole and then 
added to a delicious sauce. Dinner was a soup of some kind, roti, eggplant in 
sauce, a mixed vegetable dish and a type of bread that is mixed up, made into 
balls then roasted in the fire. You pull it apart and eat it with a mixture of 
mush. It is delicious mush made of potatoes, onions and other indecipherable 
things. 

Dessert was a custard with pomegranate seeds and other fruits. I don't know if 
it was the atmosphere or food or situation but I have rarely had such a good 
meal anywhere. 

By the time dinner was done it was nine and most of us went to bed. We are in 
tents and on thin mats with a sleeping sheet and a blanket that smells of 
camphor each. Not the most comfortable of beds but I fell asleep at once. Of 
course that meant I was awake by 1 and rather than lie awake I have chosen to 
get up and sit on the sand and write my journal, pausing frequently to look up 
at the stars and the little crescent of a moon. There was a time, maybe two 
hours, when it was quiet but I can hear the faint sounds of music from worship, 
bells and growling dogs (several wild dogs swam across the river when they 
smelled the food cooking and they are still here.) I'm also hearing a breathing 
sound from the river, apparently there are a kind of dolphin here. I choose to 
think that That is what I am hearing.

