7  In India there is no need of alarm clocks, or the day that went horribly 
wrong.
Oct 20
After my last writing episode I headed back to bed. The mattress wasn't soft 
but I was tired. About twenty minutes after, at four am, suddenly a loud 
speaker came to life. It was the beginning of the devotional day at the Hindu 
temple across the river.
Not only was it loud, but the singer was pushing his voice, my throat began to 
hurt just listening to him. As I was getting used to the voice and the rhythm 
and about to drop off, a loooooooong train came by, sounding its whistle for an 
interminable amount of time and then the wild dogs began to fight. I couldn't 
help it, I started laughing, it was just too funny. You don't need an alarm 
clock in India.
The sunrise was beautiful this morning and we watched it while having chai and 
eating porridge with buffalo milk. Then it was back on the boats and a transfer 
to a bus, to drive to Allahabad where we were to catch the train for a five 
hour ride to Bandhavgarh national park.
The ride was tough. A bus but one whose seats were so uncomfortable and packed 
that even I couldn't get my knees in straight. As Katherine said 'this is the 
best mode of transportation we have been on and its still bloody 
uncomfortable'. But we did manage to make it to the station.
To find out the train was twelve hours late.
What to do. 
 This is when you are happy that it isn't your problem. We were herded to the 
train cafeteria to have lunch while Mithun arranged something else. As we were 
munching on a mixture of very dull foods we were talking about train stations 
and their hygiene, when we looked up to see a rat scurry by. That was the end 
of lunch.
An hour later we were on a bus for a twelve hour drive. Hard, but what can you 
do?
But
One hour after our journey began we stopped for gas and discovered a flat tire. 
'relax in the shade for fifteen minutes while we change the tire' we were told. 
An hour later we were still waiting as the driver (who had to crawl under the 
truck to get the tire) stripped the bolt and took over an hour to just get it 
out from under. 
I amused myself by taking pictures of the children in school Tuk Tuks which 
came by, then showing the children their own faces. Gradually I became aware 
that the men who seem to hang about all these places were hovering so I took 
their pictures too, and then the gas station attendants wanted their turn. 
Everyone had a great time looking at themselves. The gas station owner spoke to 
his guys pretty sharply so I took his picture all by himself, and then had him 
pose in various ways. I told him he was much more handsome than his employees 
and had others in the tour take pictures of him as well. After that he was fine 
with his men.
Just as we were getting really bored a bunch of monkeys came out of the bush 
and ran about. At one point they got into our bus and there was much shouting 
and banging until they ran out again. Apparently monkeys are horrible thieves.
When we were finally on the road again we continued along horrid roads. We 
complain about the infrastructure at home but we have no idea that we are so 
fortunate. Some of the bits of the highway were worse than logging roads after 
a hard winter. Huge potholes, crumbling sides, no retaining walks and deadly 
switchbacks. And dust. Even with a scarf over my mouth and nose I was chewing 
dust. It was hard on the backside, hard on the neck (constant jostling), hard 
on the lungs and eyes (dust), hard on the spine (twisted up for leg room).
We passed village after village. We know so much about the economic miracle 
that India has had but we forget that a vast number of people have not been 
touched. We saw men ploughing with oxen, cow paddies being made for fuel, very 
young girls preparing food and a great deal of poverty. Somehow the poverty in 
the cities isn't as in your face as this.
Toilets were a problem as I'm not good at squats, but at least squats have a 
hole.
At one place we were shown into a little room, about three feet square, no 
hole, at another we were directed into a yard, but decided if we were to pee in 
the outdoors it would be better not to do so on someone's yard.
At one stop Sue was still behind a bush when a herd of goats and their very old 
goat herd came walking by. They fanned out on either side of her and all we 
could see was her astonished face in the midst of a bunch of very uninterested 
animals.
We stopped to get a bite to eat at an outdoor place in the middle of nowhere 
and got to watch a rat run through our legs. But I realized I shouldn't be 
surprised, rats are everywhere, we just don't see them at home because we don't 
live outside as people in a warm climate do.
Finally we came to the park.  
And didn't go to the hotel.
The gates of the hotel were closed and locked. It seems that the owner of the 
hotel had power problems and there was no electricity in the rooms, he had 
arranged other rooms for us. But the place was in the park, where there is no 
cell service so we had to wait for a guide to take us in, if we got lost we 
would just drive aimlessly around.
So we waited ...... and waited.
Until four guys on motorcycles came by.
FINALLY we were there, we piled out, we turned expectantly....
Do you know how your heart sinks when you hear, 'make sure you have your 
torches, there are no lights to your rooms!' Luckily the little dollar store 
flashlight worked just fine.
I can't say the room is particularly clean, but it is quiet, the beds are more 
comfortable than last night's mats and there is hot water. I'm a happy woman. 
Maybe we'll get lucky and see a tiger tomorrow.

