8 Tiger, tiger burning bright ...where are you?
Oct 21
What luxury it was this morning to have no early time to meet. How lovely to be 
staying in one place for two nights. There was time to do laundry this morning 
and set it out on the racks. I had planned to send my laundry out here but we 
haven't been in one place long enough to organize it.
After breakfast this morning some of us took a village walk with a local guide. 
As he didn't speak English and we couldn't speak his dialect it was a very 
quiet walk and we didn't exactly learn very much, but it was pleasant. We 
walked for about an hour, looking at plants and waving at children who waved at 
us. Things are pretty traditional here and women stay inside the compound for 
the most part. Mithun tried to answer some of our questions but obviously 
doesn't know much about plants and wild life. Still, after yesterday, what a 
great way to stretch out legs. One little girl was blowing bubbles, but not the 
way we do it. She would break off a shoot of a tree and make a triangle with 
the soft bark, then wait for the sap to fill the area and blow bubbles. It was 
very impressive.
We returned to rest up before our safari. Bandhavgarh is known as a tiger 
reserve but we were not too excited ...seeing a tiger in the wild takes luck 
more than anything else and our luck hasn't been the best lately. We had to 
bring our passports along, you have to prove your identity to get into the 
park, there are too many poachers.
We didn't see any tigers but we saw three different kinds of deer, an antelope, 
two kinds of monkeys, water buffalo, huge spiders and many kinds of birds. It 
was fun to whizz along in the jeep and the flora was so pretty.
Once home we had chai (bless chai, it keeps you hydrated) then were treated to 
a dance show by locals. They got us up to dance after the formal part of the 
show was over. The men show a great display of strength, the women of 
endurance. It was so much fun to dance with the women, but after two dances I 
was bagged, they do go on a long time.
It was Leslie's birthday today and we celebrated with Indian rice pudding and a 
chocolate banana cake. Tomorrow we have another chance to see the tiger.

