9 Cricket Seranades In Khajuraho

Oct 22 

One more chance to see the tiger today. 

We were up early and by 5 am in jeeps to head back to the park in search of the 
tigers. We know the drill now and got through the formalities quickly. 

Our guide told us that they have had no problems with poachers in the last two 
years but had been losing tigers for other reasons. Being territorial, tigers 
defend their area and they had lost three tigers last year due to tiger fights. 
Also the villages electrify their fences in that area and three tigers have 
been electrocuted. The government is trying to enlarge the park and relocate 
villages but it is a slow process. 

We spent four hours in the jeep and saw more deer, more antelope,more birds, 
more monkeys, but no cats. Another jeep had a quick glance at a leopard but we 
did not have that privilege. Still it was a pleasant four hours, looking at the 
landscape, enjoying the diversity, watching the play of light over the trees, 
marveling at the amazing grasses and the clumping bamboo. 

Back at the resort we packed up and headed out. We are dropping like flies 
here. First Steve had his fall (though he is still gamely with us), then two of 
our group came down with tummy complaints. Poor things. It is horrid to be sick 
away from home and to have to travel must be so much worse; we did frequent 
stops for people who needed to get out the van for one reason or another. Now 
my roommate, Chris is feeling unwell. That's one third of our group with some 
health complaint. 

We had two vans for this leg of the trip which was more comfortable than the 
buses. We did a seven hour trip to Khajuraho , it should have been shorter but 
there is a bridge out somewhere and so we had to take the long route. Still, 
our van was very jolly and we chatted most of the way. At one point I said 'you 
know, when I first got to India I was so excited to see cows in the streets 
....now, not so much'. However any time you travel you see amazing things. 
Yesterday it was the beautiful landscape and a bunch of water buffalo swimming 
in a swimming hole, wonderful goat herds, and women who so eloquently balance 
things on their heads. 

Every town is festooned with mini lights as Diwali is tomorrow. 

Our hotel is a curious mixture of fancy and dilapidated. Marble or marble like 
floors, intricate statutes, stairs and railings, a beautiful balcony, but beds 
so hard that I lifted the cover to see if there was a mattress underneath, and 
a toilet seat that falls off unless you sit VERY carefully. We also have 
crickets in the bathroom. We thought it was a squeaky fan until we realized 
that it stops when you go in there. When you leave you hear one lone guy start 
up until he is gradually joined by his buddies. 

I have completely given up on my hair, I jam a hat on it and forget it, unless 
something really irritates me, then I cut that bit off. I'm going to look as if 
a tiger chewed off my hair in a few days but it works for now.

